WASHINGTON — A senior Republican senator on Sunday warned U.S. President Donald Trump against pulling U.S. troops from Syria, saying it would lead to a resurgence of Islamic State and increased Iranian sway over the Syrian government in Damascus."It’d be the single worst decision the president could make," Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said on the Fox News Sunday program."We got ISIL on the ropes. You want to let 'em off the ropes, remove American soldiers," Graham said, using an acronym for Islamic State.With Islamic State having lost almost all the territory it once held in Syria, Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops.That position appears to put the president at odds with U.S. military officials, who see the fight against Islamic State as far from complete.The White House's National Security Council is expected to meet early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria.A senior administration official told Reuters that Trump's advisers believe the U.S. military needs to stay in Syria in small numbers for at least two more years. Trump is unhappy with the advice, but it is unclear if he will actually order a troop withdrawal, the official said.About 2,000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Graham, in the television interview, echoed White House advisers' concerns about an early pullout."This is a disaster in the making," he said."There are over 3,000 ISIS fighters still roaming around Syria," Graham said, using another acronym for Islamic State. "If we withdrew our troops anytime soon, ISIS would come back, the war between Turkey and the Kurds would get out of hand, and you’d be giving Damascus to the Iranians without an American presence."  (Reporting by Warren Strobel and Steve Holland Editing by Bill Rigby)
AMMAN —  An agreement had been reached to evacuate Jaish al Islam rebel fighters from the last insurgent bastion in the eastern suburbs of Damascus to the city of Jarablus in northern Syria near the border with Turkey, a Hezbollah run-media unit said on Sunday.The deal comes after several days of negotiations to spare bloodshed in the city of Douma and will include setting up a Syrian government-approved local council in the city that will run its affairs after rebels withdraw, the media unit said on social media.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; Editing by Mark Potter)
BEIRUT —  A rebel faction trapped by government forces outside the Syrian capital agreed to evacuate to northern Syria on Sunday as reports swirled of a larger agreement that would have the government retake full control of the eastern Ghouta region after seven years of revolt.Fighters from the Faylaq al-Rahman group left Douma on buses sent by the Syrian government to the rebel-held province of Idlib, SANA state news agency reported. Some 1,300 fighters, activists, and civilians signed up to leave the town, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group.It was the first organized evacuation of fighters from Douma, one of the earliest centers of the anti-government demonstrations that swept through the country in 2011. Security forces responded by putting the town and other suburbs around Damascus under siege, bombing hospitals and residential areas, and blocking the entry of food and medical relief.Douma is a stronghold of the powerful Army of Islam rebel group. The town is one of the last around the capital to hold out against the government.Later Sunday, a media outlet linked to the Syrian military reported that the Army of Islam also agreed to leave to north Syria, effectively transferring control of Douma to Damascus.The deal would mark the end of a weeks-long push by the government to consolidate its control of the eastern Ghouta region just outside the capital.Fighters from the Army of Islam would evacuate to Jarablus, a town in the northern Aleppo province that is shared between rebel and Turkish control. Turkey, with support from rebels, is running its own military operations against a U.S.-backed Kurdish party that controls territory along the frontier.A local council for Douma would be formed with the approval of the central government, said the government-linked Central Military Media outlet.Russia's military also said Sunday that a preliminary agreement has been reached on the evacuation of Army of Islam fighters. Maj.-Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, chief of the Russian center for reconciliation of the Syrian warring parties, said the fighters are to hand over maps of mined areas and underground tunnels while leaving Douma, as well as clear major transport routes of barricades.Opposition officials, however, denied the reports. There was no comment from the Army of Islam.The Army of Islam did not agree to leave the town, said Iyad Abdelaziz, a member of Douma's current local council. He said "humanitarian cases" would be allowed to evacuate on Monday.Dozens if not hundreds of residents are believed to require care for war wounds and medical conditions exacerbated by the siege of the town. The government routinely blocks aid groups from evacuating patients from besieged areas for medical care.Local activists say over 100,000 civilians are trapped inside Douma, which suffered devastating damage during the latest government assault.Ahmad Ramadan, a prominent opposition figure in exile, told the Saudi TV channel al-Arabiya that the Army of Islam was still engaged in talks with Russia over the future of the town. He said Turkey was also participating in the talks.Faylaq al-Rahman did not have a significant presence in the Douma. They were instead pushed into the town by a recent government offensive that broke rebel lines and cleaved eastern Ghouta into three parts, said local media activist Ahmad Khansour.The fighters in Douma were following their Faylaq al-Rahman comrades trapped in the other two Ghouta pockets that relocated to northern Syria last week. Government forces extended their control over those areas over the course of a five-week offensive that killed at least 1,600 civilians and displaced tens of thousands more, according to the Observatory, an opposition-linked group that monitors both sides of the conflict.___Associated Press writer Albert Aji Damascus, Syria, contributed to this report.
AMMAN —  Jaish al Islam, in control of the last rebel bastion in eastern Ghouta, appears to have reached a deal that would allow its members to leave to rebel-held areas in northern Syria or make peace with the government, state media said on Sunday.State media said, without elaborating, that there was information indicating a deal had finally been brokered to end the standoff in Douma city, the largest urban center in the eastern suburbs of Damascus that remains in insurgent hands.The Syrian army last week warned the insurgents to surrender or face a military assault to drive them out.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; Editing by Mark Potter)
WASHINGTON —  Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said he's glad John Bolton will serve as President Donald Trump's national security adviser going into talks with North Korea because of his "very healthy skepticism."A U.S.-North Korean summit is slated for May. Hopes have been raised that Kim Jong Un  may be willing to discuss his nuclear weapons program and other measures to reduce the threat of war, possibly in exchange for security guarantees and an easing of the international sanctions that have severely pinched the already struggling North Korean economy.Graham said he had dinner with Bolton a couple of nights ago and the hawkish former ambassador to the U.N. expressed fears that North Korea is "just buying time" as it seeks to develop a nuclear-armed missile."He sees these negotiations as a way of buying time. That's what they've done in the past," said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.Bolton replaces Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster on April 9.Graham said he would be skeptical about the terms and conditions of the summit, but he does hope the president will meet with the North Korean leader. He called for negotiations that are "very focused and get quick action.""We don't want to give him nine months or a year to talk and build a missile at the same time," Graham said on "Fox News Sunday."At the same time, Graham warned Trump not to remove troops from Syria. Trump declared earlier this week: "Let the other people take care of it now."Graham said that leaving Syria would allow the Islamic State group to strengthen, the fighting between the Syrian Kurdish militia and Turkey would get out of hand, and Russia and Iran would go on to dominate Syria."It would be the single worst decision the president could make," Graham said.
BEIRUT —  The Latest on the conflict in Syria (all times local):10:10 p.m.Russia's military says a preliminary agreement has been reached on the withdrawal of fighters of the Army of Islam rebel group from the eastern Ghouta suburbs of Syria's capital, Damascus.Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, chief of the Russian center for reconciliation of the Syrian warring parties, said Sunday that the fighters are to hand over maps of mined areas and underground tunnels while leaving the Douma area of Eastern Ghouta.They also must voluntarily remove mines from buildings and clear major transport routes of barricades.___7:05 p.m.A council member of the opposition-controlled town of Douma in the eastern Ghotua suburbs of Damascus says reports of an agreement to surrender the town to the central government are not true.Iyad Abdelaziz says there is no agreement reached to have the Army of Islam rebel faction leave Douma for north Syria and hand over the town to government forces. He says, however, that "humanitarian cases" will be allowed to evacuate on Monday.Douma has been besieged by government forces since 2013. It was one of the earliest hubs of the Arab Spring-styled uprising against President Bashar Assad that swept through the country in 2011.Hundreds of residents are believed to require care for war wounds and medical conditions exacerbated by the siege. The government routinely blocks aid groups from evacuating patients from besieged areas for medical care.An opposition official told the Saudi TV channel al-Arabiya that the Army of Islam was still engaged in talks with Russia over the future of Douma. Russia is a key backer of the Syrian government.Ahmad Ramadan says Turkey, which backs various Syrian rebel groups, and shares control over a part of opposition territory in north Syria, is also party to the talks.___6:15 p.m.Syrian military media says rebels belonging to the powerful Army of Islam group have agreed to evacuate their stronghold in the suburbs of Damascus, giving the government complete control of the eastern Ghouta region which has been rebel-held since 2011.The Central Military Media outlet, which is linked to the Syrian military, says the Army of Islam has agreed to leave the town of besieged town of Douma for Jarablus, a town shared between rebel and Turkish control in north Syria.It says a local council for Douma will be formed with the approval of the central government.Douma was one of the earliest hubs of the uprising against President Bashar Assad in 2011. The security services responded by putting the town and other suburbs around Damascus under siege, bombing hospitals and residential areas, and blocking food and medical relief. Douma is one of the last pockets of the opposition around the capital to hold out against the government.It was not immediate possible to confirm the details of the deal and there was no comment from the Army of Islam.The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group reported earlier in the day Russia's military police would be deployed inside Douma to take custodianship of the town.___4:10 p.m.A rebel faction trapped by Syrian government forces outside the capital agreed to evacuate to northern Syria on Sunday as talks continued over lifting the siege against the town of Douma, where tens of thousands of civilians await relief.Fighters from the Faylaq al-Rahman group left Douma on buses sent by the Syrian government to the rebel-held province of Idlib, SANA state news agency reported.It was the first organized evacuation of fighters from Douma, which has held out against government forces through 7 years of war. The town was one of the hubs of the Arab Spring uprising against President Bashar Assad's government in 2011, which drew a brutal response from security forces, sparking the ongoing civil war.Some 1,300 fighters, activists, and civilians signed up to leave the town, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.
Good morning. Pope Francis calls for peace, Kim Jong-un takes in some K-pop, and Tesla faces more trouble. Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a “dangerous” flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s hard-line stance on immigration._____• In Afghanistan, the Taliban are increasingly attacking security forces using night-vision goggles and lasers that U.S. military officials said were either stolen from Afghan and international troops or bought on the black market.And a retired U.S. lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005 said advanced equipment, like drones and precision weapons, is being seized by extremist groups in other global conflict zones.“It’s going to change how we operate,” he said._____• “For every 10 killed, 20 more will join.”That was a protester in the Kashmir Valley on Sunday, after the Indian Army killed at least 12 militants. It was the largest one-day toll of insurgents in recent years, in a brutal territorial conflict between India and Pakistan that has endured for decades.At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were reported wounded._____• Tesla appears to be in real trouble.Concerns that Elon Musk’s electric-car company is burning through cash have damaged its credit rating and raised questions about whether it could run out of money by the end of the year.And its stock fell in after-hours trading last week, after Tesla disclosed that a fatal crash in California on March 23 occurred while Autopilot, its semiautonomous driving system, above, was engaged._____• Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the “carnage” in “the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria” and urged “reconciliation” in the Middle East. The pope also pressed for “the fruits of dialogue” to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula, above, where 10,000 Christians gathered in Seoul to pray.At St. Andrew’s Cathedral in Sydney, Australia, the Anglican archbishop Glenn Davies said the redemption of Easter gave hope of forgiveness to all who faced moral failure — including the disgraced Australia cricket team.• Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazon’s Alexa Super Bowl ad.)• Eight years after Live Nation merged with Ticketmaster, bringing together the world’s largest concert promoter with the world’s leading ticket provider, U.S. regulators are looking into accusations that the company uses threats and pressure to rule ticketing.• “Ready Player One,” Steven Spielberg’s nostalgia-soaked science-fiction adventure, took in more than $181 million on its debut weekend. Chinese ticket buyers turned out in particular force.• Facebook’s latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending  growth at any cost — even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.)• The list of Chinese products that will be hit with new U.S. tariffs is expected to be announced within days. Here are other headlines to watch for this week.• Markets are closed in Australia, Hong Kong, London and Milan. Here’s a snapshot of other global markets.• North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and South Korea’s culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, were in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times]• “Like a Dream.” The Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai made an emotional return home to Pakistan’s Swat Valley, where the Taliban tried to kill her in 2012. [The New York Times]• The U.N. announced new measures against North Korea, blacklisting 27 ships, 21 shipping companies and one individual accused of helping the North evade sanctions. [The New York Times]• Israel warned that it would target groups inside Gaza if violence along the border continued. On Friday, at least 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire. [The New York Times]• A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old Filipina maid, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Agence France-Presse]• The Chinese space lab Tiangong-1 is expected to burn into Earth’s atmosphere within hours. Here’s a look at the rise and fall of China’s first space station. [The New York Times]• April Fools’ Day on the internet: Australia’s public broadcaster navigated some of this year’s biggest joke headlines, including “drop bears” and chocolate burgers. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Working out is great for you. Here’s how to start.• For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes.• Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo.• Why would a 70 year old kayak across the Atlantic Ocean (for the third time)? “To feel alive,” said the man who did it.• A landmark ruling in Israel allows babies to be conceived from frozen embryos or sperm of people who have died. But is it ethical?• And “The Last Wild Men of Borneo” by Carl Hoffman tells the stories of an environmental activist accepted by an indigenous tribe as one of its own, and a man who became one of the world’s most successful tribal art collectors.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates to 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature activity, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.“The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan,” The Times noted last year.Guests receive a souvenir wooden egg as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and they’re also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____. 
VATICAN CITY —  Pope Francis, in his Easter address on Sunday, called for peace in the Holy Land two days after 15 Palestinians were killed on the Israeli-Gaza border, saying the conflict there "does not spare the defenseless".The pope made his appeal in his "Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world) message from the central balcony of St. Peter's Basilica to tens of thousands of people in the flower-bedecked square below where he earlier celebrated a Mass.He also appealed for an end to the "carnage" in Syria, calling for humanitarian aid to be allowed to enter, and for peace in South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo.Francis appeared to refer directly to the Gaza violence last Friday, calling for "reconciliation for the Holy Land, also experiencing in these days the wounds of ongoing conflict that do not spare the defenseless."Israel's defense minister has rejected calls for an inquiry into the killings by the military during a Palestinian demonstration that turned violent at the Gaza-Israel border.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, Federica Mogherini, the European Union's foreign policy chief, and other leaders have called for an independent investigation into the bloodshed.The Pope also begged for peace for "the entire world, beginning with the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria, whose people are worn down by an apparently endless war.""This Easter, may the light of the risen Christ illumine the consciences of all political and military leaders, so that a swift end may be brought to the carnage in course ... " he said.He spoke a day after the Syrian army command said it had regained most of the towns and villages in eastern Ghouta. Tens of thousands of people have now evacuated once-bustling towns in the suburbs east of the capital, which had nearly 2 million people before the start of the conflict and were major commercial and industrial hubs.Francis called for international assistance for Venezuela, so that more people would not have to abandon their homeland because of the economic and political crisis.He hoped the "fruits of dialogue" would advance peace and harmony on the Korean peninsula, where the two sides are set to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un pledged his commitment to denuclearisation.Francis, celebrating his sixth Easter as Roman Catholic leader since his election in 2013, urged his listeners to work for an end to the "so many acts of injustice" in the world.He prayed the power of Jesus' message "bears fruits of hope and dignity where there are deprivation and exclusion, hunger and unemployment, where there are migrants and refugees - so often rejected by today’s culture of waste - and victims of the drug trade, human trafficking and contemporary forms of slavery".(Reporting by Philip Pullella; Editing by Mark Potter)
MANBIJ, Syria —  Residents of the small alley where an explosion killed two members of the U.S.-led coalition this week were fixing their windows and the fronts of their homes on Saturday. Shards of glass still littered the dirt road and metal shutters were twisted out of shape.The explosion Thursday was the first to hit the U.S.-led coalition deployed here months after the town was liberated from Islamic State militants in 2016. An American and a Briton were killed, and a number of local security members were injured. The improvised explosive device went off during an operation against a member of the Islamic State group in this mixed Arab and Kurdish town, the U.S.-led Coalition said Saturday."Coalition forces, in an advise, assist and accompany capacity with our partners, were conducting a mission to kill or capture a known (IS) member when they were struck by an improvised explosive device," the coalition said in a statement to The Associated Press.Residents described a large blast. A local security member on the scene, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the press, said there was gunfire before the explosion went off. Locals speculated the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber, judging by the extent of the damage to the alley and the bodies."Half an hour after the explosion, the choppers were in the air," resident Mohammed Eid said, adding the explosion just before midnight woke him up.His family, which lives in the building opposite where the explosion happened, was fixing windows in the first floor Saturday.Local authorities said a joint investigation was ongoing. It follows what appeared to be rare joint raid in Manbij against suspected IS cells.The town has served as a model of stabilization in post-IS areas in northern Syria.But in recent weeks, Manbij has seen an assassination attempt against a senior Kurdish official on the highway outside the town and a number of small explosions. Authorities imposed a curfew after 11 p.m., and in recent days barred motorcycles from moving around the town after sunset.It is not clear who was behind the attacks. Officials express concern about IS attempting to re-emerge and accused Turkey and the Syrian government of seeking to destabilize the town.Turkey has threatened to move on Manbij to expel the U.S-backed Kurdish militia in control.U.S. troops have increased their visibility in Manbij and around the front line that separates the town from Turkey-backed fighters.
VATICAN CITY —  On Christianity's most joyful day, Pope Francis called for peace in a world marked by war and conflict, "beginning with the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria" and extending to Israel, where 15 Palestinians were killed on the Israeli-Gaza border two days before Easter Sunday.Francis reflected on the power of Christianity's core belief — that Jesus rose from the dead following crucifixion — in his formal "Urbi et Orbi" Easter message delivered from the balcony of St. Peter's Basilica to a packed square of some 80,000 faithful below.The pontiff said the message of the resurrection offers hope in a world "marked by so many acts of injustice and violence," including parts of Africa affected by "hunger, endemic conflicts and terrorism.""It bears fruits of hope and dignity where there are deprivation and exclusion, hunger and unemployment; where there are migrants and refugees, so often rejected by today's culture of waste, and victims of the drug trade, human trafficking and contemporary forms of slavery," the pope said.Francis called for a "swift end" to the seven years of carnage in Syria, demanding that aid be delivered to the war-torn country's needy and calling for "fitting conditions for the returned and the displaced."The pope also urged reconciliation in Israel, a place "experiencing in these days the wounds of ongoing conflict that do not spare the defenseless." His remarks followed the Friday deaths of Palestinian protesters who charged toward Gaza's border with Israel, the area's deadliest violence in four years.Turning to Asia, Francis expressed hope that talks underway could bring peace to the Korean peninsula, urging "those who are directly responsible act with wisdom and discernment to promote the good of the Korean people."The pope also urged more steps to bring harmony to divided Ukraine, called for peace in South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo and appealed for the world not to forget victims of conflict, especially children."May there be no lack of solidarity with all those forced to leave their native lands and lacking the bare essentials for living," said Francis, who has often championed the cause of migrants and refugees.The church's first pontiff from Latin America cited in particular the problems in Venezuela. He said he hoped the country would "find a just, peaceful and humane way to surmount quickly the political and humanitarian crises that grip it."Earlier, tens of thousands of faithful underwent heavy security checks to enter St. Peter's Square to participate in Easter Sunday Mass celebrated by the pope, followed by his "Urbi et Orbi"  message ("to the city and the world.")Security precautions included bag checks and metal detector wands for everyone entering the square, while the main avenue leading to the Vatican, as well as smaller adjoining streets, were closed to traffic.Francis opened Easter festivities with a tweet to his global flock: "Our faith is born on Easter morning: Jesus is alive! The experience is at the heart of the Christian message."Elsewhere, hundreds of Christians marked Easter by flocking to Jerusalem's Church of the Holy Sepulchre, built on the site where they believe Jesus was crucified, buried and resurrected.
