BEIRUT —  Iranian President Hassan Rouhani attacked the United States and Israel for their roles in Syria before he boarded a plane for Turkey where he was scheduled to meet President Tayyip Erdogan and visiting Russian President Vladimir Putin."The Americans are against the Syrian government establishing its authority throughout the whole country and are even thinking of a breakup [of the country]," he said in a ceremony broadcast live from Tehran’s Mehrabad airport."There's interference from Zionist forces in Syria which has increased problems. They don't respect Syrian national sovereignty. They bomb areas in Syria. They support terrorists. These are all issues which have increased Syria's problems," he said.The leaders of the three countries are meeting in Ankara for a summit on Syria, bringing together two powers which have been Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's most forceful supporters, Iran and Russia, with one of his strongest opponents, Turkey.Russia has boosted Assad's military capabilities in the conflict by bringing in key air support.Critics have accused Russia of targeting civilians, a charge Moscow has denied.The U.S. military has primarily limited its intervention in Syria to fighting Islamic State militants rather than targeting forces allied with the Syrian government.Rouhani said there was no military solution to seven years of conflict in Syria, in which 500,000 people have been killed and half the population displaced. Only dialogue could end it, he said.Shi’ite-dominated Iran is Assad’s main regional ally and has acknowledged having military advisers and volunteers from its elite Revolutionary Guards in Syria.Tensions ramped up between Israel and Iran in early February when anti-aircraft fire downed an Israeli F-16 warplane returning from a bombing raid on Iran-backed positions in Syria.Israel then launched a second and more intensive air raid, hitting what it said were 12 Iranian and Syrian targets in Syria, including Syrian air defense systems.Senior Iranian political and military officials have denied playing a role in shooting down the Israeli jet or launching a drone into Israeli territory. (Reporting By Babak Dehghanpisheh; Editing by Richard Balmforth)
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we've almost completed that task."A decision by Trump to withdraw from Syria would conflict with the views of his top advisers.In fact, as Trump addressed reporters at the White House, high-ranking U.S. officials spoke elsewhere in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries, and keep it from rising up again.At a news conference with the presidents of the Baltic nations, Trump was asked whether he still favored pulling U.S. troops out of Syria."As far as Syria is concerned, our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS," Trump answered, using an acronym for the Islamic State group. "We've completed that task and we'll be making a decision very quickly, in coordination with others in the area, as to what we will do."The mission is "very costly for our country and it helps other countries a helluva lot more than it helps us," Trump said."I want to get out. I want to bring our troops back home. I want to start rebuilding our nation," he said during the appearance with his counterparts from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Trump also noted that the Baltic states are partners with the U.S. in the anti-IS coalition and "we will not rest until ISIS is gone."Later Tuesday, Trump met with his national security team to discuss Syria.According to officials familiar with the preparations for the meeting, Trump's entire national security team, including CIA chief Mike Pompeo, who has been nominated to be the next secretary of state, strongly advised against a hasty withdrawal from Syria. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal talks.Also on the meeting agenda was the fate of some $200 million in U.S. stabilization assistance for Syria that the White House put on hold after Trump said during a speech in Ohio last week that he wanted to leave Syria "very soon." The State Department was to have spent the money on building up the country's infrastructure, including power, water and roads.Trump in recent weeks has asked Saudi Arabia to contribute $4 billion for reconstruction in Syria, according to a U.S. official, as part of the president's effort to get other countries to pay for stabilizing the country so the U.S. isn't on the hook. The United States is awaiting a response from the Saudis, said the official, who wasn't authorized to discuss the conversations publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.A senior Syrian Kurdish official said Trump's comments on wanting to withdraw from Syria came at an "inappropriate time" as Islamic State militants re-emerge in eastern Syria and amid threats from Turkey.Ilham Ahmed, a senior Kurdish official in Syria's Raqqa province, said such a decision would clear the way for "total chaos in Syria," endangering areas newly liberated from the IS group and empowering Turkey to move in on towns controlled by the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, backed by the U.S.-led coalition.The main IS holdout in Syria is in the eastern province of Deir el-Zour, where momentum by the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces has stalled in recent weeks as many Kurdish members of the group have shifted west to the Afrin area to fight Turkish forces. Pentagon officials have publicly raised the prospect of this giving the IS group the breathing room it needs to regroup.Many have warned that a premature U.S. withdrawal from Syria would cede the country to Iran and Russia, which have supported Syrian President Bashar Assad. Iran's continued presence in Syria is especially troubling to neighboring Israel, a U.S. ally that regards Iran as an existential threat.Some high-ranking Trump administration officials urged caution.Gen. Joseph Votel told a conference at the United States Institute of Peace that the United States would have to continue its work against remnants of the Islamic State group in eastern Syria. Votel is commander of U.S. Central Command, which oversees U.S. military operations across the Middle East, including Syria.Votel said the military campaign has been largely successful but is not over."The hard part, I think, is in front of us, and that is stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back into their homes, addressing the long-term issues" like reconstruction of towns and cities badly damaged by the fighting and by the Islamic State group's scorched-earth tactics. "There is a military role in this, certainly in the stabilization phase."At the same Institute of Peace event, State Department envoy Brett McGurk said, "We want to keep eyes on the prize, on ISIS, because ISIS is not finished."A third U.S. official, Mark Green, administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, also argued at the conference that U.S. stabilization efforts in Syria are critical to a lasting defeat of the Islamic State group.___Associated Press writers Matthew Lee, Josh Lederman and Robert Burns in Washington and Sarah El Deeb in Qamishli, Syria, contributed to this report.______This story has been corrected to show the name of the Syrian town is Deir el-Zour, not Der el-Zour.
QAMISHLI, Syria —  British Labour officials visited the Kurdish-led authority in northern Syria on Tuesday, pledging to stand with it in the face of threats of attacks."We're here for a long-term relationship with you, where we can support you against all the people who are trying to destroy your liberty," said Maurice Glasman, a Labour peer in the House of Lords. "We also bring, with a full heart, our solidarity," he said in Qamishli city, in a stretch of the country which Syrian Kurdish forces mostly control.Last month, Turkish forces seized Syria's Afrin region, driving out the Kurdish YPG militia which Ankara deems a menace along its border.Turkey has threatened to march further east. It sees the YPG as an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) that has waged a decades-long insurgency on Turkish soil.Since the start of Syria's multi-sided conflict, the YPG and its allies have carved out autonomous cantons in the north, setting up a federal system of government. Their power grew after taking vast territory from Islamic State with U.S. help - though Washington opposes their political plans, as does the Syrian government.Syrian Kurdish leaders say they seek autonomy as part of a decentralized Syria, rather than secession.Abed al-Karim Omar, a top member of the self-administration in the north, said the British group that arrived on Tuesday marked the first such public, high-level delegation."There were meetings previously not declared," he said. "But this is the first visit in this official way." The MPs would discuss Afrin and the tens of thousands residents displaced there, Omar added.Glasman said they would tour parts of northern Syria, meeting fighters of the YPG and its all-female YPJ affiliate, as well as local civil councils.Labour MP Lloyd Russell-Moyle said they would "share that back in England with our parliament and with our people," and that he hoped for better scrutiny of arms sales to Turkey."We want to say we are with you side by side," he said.(Reporting by Rodi Said in northern Syria; Editing by Tom Brown)
WASHINGTON —  U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable, as his advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilise areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.Trump told a news conference the United States would "not rest until ISIS is gone," using an acronym for the militant group. But he also suggested that victory was imminent.The Pentagon and State Department have held that a longer term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State's defeat is a lasting one."It's time," Trump told reporters, when asked if he was inclined to withdraw U.S. forces."We were very successful against (Islamic State). We'll be successful against anybody militarily. But sometimes it's time to come back home, and we're thinking about that very seriously."The United States is waging near-daily air strikes in Syria and has deployed about 2,000 troops on the ground, including U.S. special operations forces whose advising has helped Kurdish militia and other U.S.-backed fighters capture territory from Islamic State.U.S. Army General Joseph Votel, who oversees U.S. troops in the Middle East as the head of Central Command, estimated on Tuesday that more than 90 percent of the group's territory in Syria had been taken back from the militants since 2014.Trump estimated the percentage of territory recaptured in Iraq and Syria at "almost 100 percent," a figure that U.S. officials say is correct - it is about 98 percent - but does not highlight the work left in Syria.The big hurdle, in the U.S. military's view, is seizing Islamic State-held territory around the Syrian town of Abu Kamal.That effort that has been slowed as U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters shift their focus away from Islamic State toward a Turkish offensive against Kurdish allies elsewhere in Syria's complex, multi-pronged civil war, now in its eighth year.Brett McGurk, the special U.S. envoy for the global coalition against Islamic State, speaking alongside Votel at an event in Washington on Tuesday, said the U.S. fight against Islamic State was not over."We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission and our mission isn't over and we are going to complete that mission,"  McGurk said.OBAMA DO-OVERExperts were divided about the significance of Trump's simultaneous musings about withdrawal and his assurance that the United States will not depart until Islamic State is defeated.The militant group is widely expected to revert to guerrilla tactics once the last remnants of its once self-styled "caliphate" are captured by U.S.-backed forces.Jon Alterman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think-tank, said a precipitous U.S. withdrawal would undermine U.S. leverage in talks to end Syria's civil war."The principal consequence is the United States surrenders the little influence it has over the future of Syria," he said.Experts warn an abrupt U.S. withdrawal could benefit Russia and Iran, U.S. rivals who could extend their influence in Syria.Trump noted that U.S. ally Saudi Arabia, Iran's arch-rival, was interested in his decision, adding: "Well, you know, you want us to stay, maybe you're going to have to pay."Trump has previously lambasted his predecessor, Barack Obama, for his withdrawal from Iraq that preceded an unravelling of the Iraqi armed forces, which eventually collapsed in the face of Islamic State's advance into the country in 2014.It was unclear what Trump's vision of a post-war U.S. role in Syria would look like. But his recent decision to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria suggests resistance to a broad U.S. ground effort.McGurk acknowledged a review was underway to ensure U.S. taxpayer dollars were well spent.Votel said he saw a U.S. military role in stabilization efforts in Syria."The hard part, I think, is in front of us, and that is stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back into their homes," Votel said, adding "there is a military role in this."(Reporting by Phil Stewart, Idrees Ali, Arshad Mohammed, David Brunnstrom, Lesley Wroughton, and Lisa Lambert; Editing by Mary Milliken, James Dalgleish and Tom Brown)
ANKARA/ISTANBUL —  Three foreign powers who have shaped Syria's civil war - Iran, Russia and Turkey - will discuss ways to wind down the fighting on Wednesday despite their involvement in rival military campaigns on the ground.The leaders of the three countries will meet in Ankara for talks on a new constitution for Syria and increasing security in "de-escalation" zones across the country, Turkish officials say.The Syria summit brings together two powers which have been President Bashar al-Assad's most forceful supporters, Iran and Russia, with one of his strongest opponents, Turkey.Cooperation between the rival camps raised hopes of stabilizing Syria after seven years of conflict in which 500,000 people have been killed and half the population displaced.But the violence has raged on, highlighting strategic rifts between the three countries who, in the absence of decisive Western intervention, hold Syria's fate largely in their hands.Syria's army and Iran-backed militias, with Russian air power, have crushed insurgents near Damascus in eastern Ghouta - one of the four mooted "de-escalation zones".Turkey, which sharply criticized the Ghouta offensive, waged its own military operation to drive Kurdish YPG fighters from the northwestern Syrian region of Afrin. It has pledged to take the town of Tel Rifaat and push further east, angering Iran."Whatever the intentions are, Turkey's moves in Syria, whether in Afrin, Tel Rifaat or any other part of Syria, should be halted as soon as possible," a senior Iranian official said.Iran has been Assad's most supportive ally throughout the conflict. Iran-backed militias first helped his army stem rebel advances and, following Russia's entry into the war in 2015, turn the tide decisively in Assad's favor.A Turkish official said Ankara will ask Moscow to press Assad to grant more humanitarian access in Ghouta, and to rein in air strikes on rebel-held areas. "We expect ... Russia to control the regime more," the official told reporters this week.RIFTS OVER ASSADAnkara's relations with Moscow collapsed in 2015 when Turkey shot down a Russian warplane but have recovered since then - to the concern of Turkey's Western allies.Turkey was one of the few NATO partners not to expel  Russian diplomats in response to a nerve agent attack on a former Russian agent which Britain blamed on Moscow - an allegation which Turkey said was not proven.Improved political ties have been reflected in Turkey's agreement to buy a Russian missile defence system and plans for Russia's ROSATOM to build Turkey's first nuclear power plant.Turkey has also expanded relations with Iran, exchanging visits by military chiefs of staff, although its deepening ties with Tehran and Moscow have not translated into broader agreement on Syria's future.Iran remains determined that Assad stay in power, while Russia is less committed to keeping him in office, a regional diplomat said. Turkey says Assad has lost legitimacy, although it no longer demands his immediate departure.At a meeting in Russia two months ago, boycotted by the leadership of Syria's opposition, delegates agreed to set up a committee to rewrite Syria's constitution and called for democratic elections.Turkey says Wednesday's meeting will discuss setting up the constitutional committee, humanitarian issues and developments in Syria's northern Idlib region, which is under the control of rival rebel factions and jihadi groups, and where Turkey has set up seven military observation posts."There are issues where all three countries have different policies in Syria," another Turkish official said. "In this regard, an aim is to find middle ground and create policies to improve the current situation."(Additional reporting by Orhan Coskun and Tulay Karadeniz in Ankara, Writing by Dominic Evans, Editing by Angus MacSwan)
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he will make a decision about pulling troops out of war-battered Syria very soon, expressing remorse about the U.S. role in violent conflicts going back to the country's invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq nearly two decades ago."Our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS. We've almost completed that task and we'll be making a decision very quickly, in coordination with others, as to what we'll do," Trump said during a press conference alongside the heads of three Baltic states, using a common acronym for the extremist Islamic State group. "I want to get out. I want to bring our troops home." The special U.S. envoy for the global coalition against Islamic State, Brett McGurk, offered a slightly different assessment at Washington forum earlier on Tuesday, saying : "We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission and our mission isn't over and we are going to complete that mission."As of three months ago, the United States had spent $7 trillion on the Middle East over the past 17 years, Trump told the press conference. The Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon spurred the country to try to defeat violent and threatening groups in the Middle East and Asia."We get nothing, nothing out of it," Trump said. "Think of it - $7 trillion over a 17-year period. We have nothing - nothing except death and destruction. It's a horrible thing. So it's time." (Reporting by Lisa Lambert; Editing by James Dalgleish)
BEIRUT/AMMAN —  Syrian rebels in a besieged area northeast of Damascus have been told they must accept state rule or leave, a rebel group said on Tuesday, as the government and its Russian ally seek to wipe out the last pockets of opposition territory near the capital.The ultimatum to the rebels of eastern Qalamoun was served to civilians from the area during a meeting with a Russian colonel and an officer from the Syrian Air Force Intelligence, rebel spokesman Said Saif of the Martyr Ahmad Abdo told Reuters.The area is 40 km (25 miles) from Damascus and separate from eastern Ghouta - an area right next to the capital where government forces have routed rebels in recent weeks, forcing thousands to accept safe passage out towards the Turkish border.An opposition source said talks over the densely-populated town of Douma, the last rebel pocket of eastern Ghouta, had yet to be concluded, at odds with state media reports that the group holed up inside - Jaish al-Islam - had accepted a deal to leave.President Bashar al-Assad, his military position secure thanks to Russia and Iran, is seeking to crush the last pockets of opposition to his rule near the main cities of western Syria.The rebel enclave in eastern Qalamoun includes several towns and a barren expanse of mountainous territory."A clear message was sent to the Free Syrian Army (FSA) groups in the area: either reconciliation and disarmament - handing weapons to the Syrian government as the Russians describe it - or departing eastern Qalamoun," Saif said in separate comments to al-Hadath TV.Saif said rebels had made a proposal under which they would withdraw from the towns into the mountains and civilians would stay, and Russia's response was being awaited. He said the aim was to avoid the "forced displacement" of people that had occurred in other areas recovered by the Syrian government.The Syrian military could not immediately be reached for comment.Saif told Reuters the civilians who met the Russian and Syrian military officers had expressed concern that a departure of rebel fighters would leave them vulnerable to attack by jihadists from Nusra Front or Islamic State.DOUMA DEADLOCK?The Syrian war last month entered its eighth year having killed hundreds of thousands of people and forced 11 million from their homes, including nearly 6 million who have fled abroad in one of the worst refugee crises of modern times.While Assad now controls the single largest chunk of Syria, it may prove difficult for him to regain much more territory without colliding with the interests of foreign states, notably Turkey and the United States which have forces in the country.Russian-backed government forces have recovered nearly all of eastern Ghouta in a ferocious assault that began in February. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says bombardment of the rebel enclave killed more than 1,600 civilians in Ghouta.It marks Assad's most significant victory over the rebellion against his rule since rebels were driven from eastern Aleppo in 2016.State media has said Jaish al-Islam had accepted a deal giving its fighters safe passage to towns at the border with Turkey that are located in a buffer zone controlled by the Turkish military and allied Syrian rebel groups.But while Russia's defence ministry said 2,000 had left since April 1, the opposition source familiar with the negotiations said no final deal had been reached with Jaish al-Islam.The group, which is estimated to have many thousands of fighters, has previously insisted it will not leave Douma or accept "forced displacement" to another part of Syria.The source said that while Jaish al-Islam wanted to stay in the town, it was not seeking its own "independent canton". People in Douma wanted a reconciliation deal with the state that keeps out its feared security services, the source added.A military source told Reuters on Monday that some elements of Jaish al-Islam were still rejecting a deal and that military force would be used if they refused to strike one.The source said on Tuesday the government had set a deadline for militants to leave Douma, without saying how long."The Syrian government has taken a decision to clear militants from the areas," the source told Reuters.(Additional reporting by Firas Makdesi in Damascus; Writing by Tom Perry; Editing by John Stonestreet and Mark Potter)
When my chin is down, my eyes are closed and my hands are cupped over my ears, it’s a sure sign that I’m tasting. I know how odd I look, but the momentary calm helps me concentrate on flavors when there’s a new recipe at hand or a complex ingredient. I always taste chocolate this way, and every once in a while I lock myself in my sensory cocoon because I’ve come upon something unusual that I want to get to know better. A couple of months ago in Paris, it was a pastry from a new, strikingly designed patisserie in the Marais, Maison Aleph.The morsel was called 1001 Feuilles (feuilles is French for leaves or layers), one layer more than the classic mille-feuille; its name carries a hint of the tales of the Arabian Nights. It was square, about the size of a marker for a board game, and it was, all at once, chewy, buttery, sweet, creamy, a tad chunky, nuttish and precisely balanced. It straddled the territory between baklava and mille-feuille, and it spoke of place, although I couldn’t be certain where. From the patisserie’s name, I expected something Middle Eastern — aleph is the first letter of both the Hebrew and Arabic alphabets — and knowing that the pastry was built on phyllo dough should have confirmed its origins. But the filling seemed French, as did the deep flavor of butter. The sweet was neither fully French nor Middle Eastern, neither familiar nor completely new, and it captured my imagination.When I met Myriam Sabet, Maison Aleph’s founder and owner, I learned how closely the traditions of East and West that shape her desserts mirror her own history. Now 41, she was born in Aleppo, Syria, went to college and graduate school in Canada and moved to France almost two decades ago, when, she says, she decided, “I was mature enough for Paris.” In 2014, Sabet, who worked in finance, turned her life upside down to learn about pastry. She studied with an elderly Syrian baker in Montreal, was certified in French pastry at a Paris school and, last July, opened Maison Aleph, a small shop that attracts dessert lovers from around the world. The day I was there with her, I heard French and English and Arabic, Hebrew, Japanese, Spanish and snippets of tongues I couldn’t place at all. Once having hoped for a career in foreign affairs, Sabet looked around the room, laughed and exclaimed, “Maybe that’s exactly what I’m doing now.”Sabet makes about a half-dozen variations of the 1001 Feuilles, each with layers of phyllo sandwiching a nut mixture in the style of baklava. One has hazelnuts from the Piedmont, one almonds from Valencia, another pistachios from Iran. The feuilles that called to me was made with sesame and halvah. As it was for Sabet, halvah was a sweet from my childhood. In Brooklyn, where I grew up, we would get it sliced to order from rounds about the size of snare drums. I knew the rich, pressed sesame-seed confection solely as a candy, but the Maison Aleph recipe for the squares’ filling used it as an ingredient to be smoothed, baked and transformed by heat.It was only when I returned home and made the dessert myself that I grasped how complex it truly was, if not in preparation, then in conception: It seamlessly fused two disparate heritages. The filling blends the halvah with tahini, toasted sesame seeds, butter, eggs, sugar and cornstarch, and traces the contours of a classic crème d’amande, the mixture a French pâtissier would use to fill a traditional fruit tart or a galette des rois.Each of the pastry layers — of which there are 28, not the poetic 1001 — is a paper-thin sheet of phyllo brushed with butter then dusted with powdered sugar. Sabet thinks that the work of buttering layer after layer of the ancient Arab dough may have inspired the French mille-feuille. In the moment, it seems right. For me, stacking the layers, spreading the filling over the plump cushion of dough and then covering it with more brushed and dusted layers brings the satisfaction of having, quite literally, constructed something.When the pastry comes from the oven and I compress the layers, helping the butter and sugar, the halvah filling and the dough meld with one another, the dessert leans less toward mille-feuille, more to baklava, its well-known form a blind for the unexpected filling. This is a pastry that’s best hours after it’s made, when the top and bottom layers are at their crispiest. But as soon as it’s cool, I tug a square loose. Now, back in the United States and an ocean away from Paris, I taste it: Its flavor and texture are as good as I remember. What’s missing is the element of surprise — it has been replaced by the sweetness of knowing every nuance of the dessert, the reward for having made it myself.Recipe: Maison Aleph’s Sesame Halvah 1001 Feuilles
WASHINGTON —  U.S. President Donald Trump discussed the threat posed by Iran with the emir of Qatar on Tuesday and also stressed the importance of resolving the rift among Gulf nations, the White House said."The leaders discussed Iran’s increasingly reckless behavior in the region and the threat it poses to regional stability," the White House said in a statement. Trump emphasized to the emir "that it is critical to end the Gulf dispute," it said.The White House said Trump spoke on Monday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia about the split in the Gulf Cooperation Council, as well as other regional issues, including Syria and Yemen.(Reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by David Alexander)
TEL ARBOUSH, Syria —  The young men and women in traditional costumes of red, blue and white, the colors of the Assyrian flag, jumped into the middle of the park. With feathers or gold tiaras on their heads, they danced, kicking up their feet to a traditional song as the New Year's party reached its peak."We Assyrians must remain united," one song rang out. Older men watching raised a glass of Arak, an anise-flavored alcohol drink, to the dancers. The dance circle grew, as women, men and militiamen guarding the daytime party joined.It is the Assyrian New Year, or Akitu. And the start of year 6768, by their calendar, coincided this time with Easter, a rare occasion that gave the small and ever shrinking community of Assyrian Christians in northern Syria more reason for their celebration Sunday.They were snatching joy out of a site of tragedy. The village of Tal Arboush, where the organizers held the celebration, is one of more than 30 villages along the Khabur River that were destroyed when Islamic State group militants descended from the nearby mountain in February 2015 and rampaged through, kidnapping 226 residents and sending the rest fleeing.The villages remain deserted and in ruins. Years of war and instability had already been eroding the community in Syria, and the IS onslaught was the final blow that nearly finished it. From nearly 20,000 Assyrians in Syria before the war in 2011, there are around 1,000, according to local activists.Assyrians are a community that traces its heritage back to ancient Mesopotamia. They speak a Semitic language distinct from Arabic. There is also a beleaguered Assyrian community in Iraq, and a smaller population in Turkey.About 200 members of Syria's remaining community came to Tal Arboush to show their resilience."We wait for this occasion to have a little fun," said Ornina Shlimon Ayo, a 23-year old, who had just come out of the dance circle.They came from the nearby towns of Qamishli and Tal Tamr where they now live, bringing food and drink to the village, where many of the houses are in rubble. A tailor prepared Assyrian flags and pictures of Lamassu, an ancient Assyrian protective deity with the head of a human and body of a winged bull, to pass around.Small barbecues were set up in the corner of the park, and a DJ kept Assyrian songs running, many of them by well-known Assyrians in exile. At one point, an older man and his friend on a buzuq — a stringed instrument — played a few songs.A history teacher struggled to keep the attention of the audience as he lectured them, in Arabic and not in Assyrian, about the ancient civilization and one of the community's modern-day heroes, born in the 19th century around the New Year, Gen. Agha Petros, an Assyrian military leader who battled the Turks in World War I.Before the mass exodus, Akitu, which is also the ancient Mesopotamian spring festival, was the time for collective weddings, held on the slopes of the nearby mountain. Those weddings have now almost disappeared because of the dwindling community. Also, Assyrians fear the mountain could be mined or shelter IS sleeper cells.Only a few marriages take place these days, mostly held in churches.Wael Warda Marza, a local Assyrian politician, said he hoped the New Year celebrations would serve to attract the thousands of Assyrians who migrated abroad."We are back again to celebrating. The sun of Ashur (the Assyrian God of war) has risen again over the villages of Khabur," Marza said. "The black flags (of IS) were only a black cloud over our villages."Still, they are wary. Assyrian security men toting automatic rifles guarded the party from the rooftop of a building overlooking the public park. Others milled around near the parking lot, some filtering in the joint the dance.The trail of destruction left by the Islamic State group serves as a reminder of how vulnerable the community is. With IS largely defeated across Syria, the main Kurdish militia, backed by the U.S., has set up a new administration in northern Syria. It has made a largely symbolic effort to be inclusive of minorities, giving Assyrians and other communities seats in local councils. It has also given support to Assyrian militias.These Assyrian militias now still guard the deserted villages, fearing they will be overtaken by the nearby Arabs or Kurds, who greatly outnumber them. There are still fears of IS re-emergence.The IS militants stormed a dozen villages one night in February 23, 2015. In coordinated attacks, the militants kidnapped 226 residents.The Syrian government had withdrawn from the villages and the Khabur River valley area in 2012 as it tried to control territory elsewhere amid the chaos as protests against the government turned into armed conflict. Local militias took over security in the villages, but residents filtered out steadily, fleeing the instability.So that horrific night three years ago, the militia couldn't protect the residents or the area's ancient churches from the well-armed, aggressive IS militants.Zaya Youkhana, a 52-year-old resident of Tal Jazira, was not in his village when IS stormed it. It was the largest village in the area, and IS kidnapped all its 82 residents, including his uncles and aunts, among the 226 Assyrians total carried off by the group that night.It took a year, but a local bishop was able to gather donations abroad to pay ransoms that eventually won the freedom of all the captives — almost. Three residents were killed in a grisly video released by the militants during the negotiations.And Youkhana said the granddaughter of his uncle was never found. "We don't know her fate. We hope she returns to her family safely," he said as he stepped over ruins to reach his uncle's mulberry tree.A slogan of the militants remains scribbled on the walls, a haunting reminder: "Soldiers of the Islamic State passed by here."
