WASHINGTON — President Trump has instructed his military commanders to quickly wrap up the American military operation in Syria so that he can bring troops home within a few months, senior administration officials said on Wednesday. He dropped his insistence on an immediate withdrawal, they said, after commanders told him they needed time to complete their mission.The president’s decision to keep the 2,000 troops on the ground in Syria for the immediate future came in a meeting of the National Security Council in the White House Situation Room on Tuesday, hours after Mr. Trump had told a roomful of reporters that “it’s time” to bring American forces home from a conflict that has been a crucial battlefield in the fight against the Islamic State.At the meeting, Mr. Trump’s top military advisers told him they had drawn up plans to pull American troops out of Syria immediately. But they also presented a plan for the forces to stay longer to clean out the residual pockets of Islamic State fighters and to train local forces to stabilize the liberated territory so that the group could not regain a foothold.“How long do you need to do that?” the frustrated president asked Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford, according to an official present for the exchange.They responded that it was difficult to predict a precise timetable, but that it would not take years. As long as the operation lasted months rather than years, Mr. Trump replied, “I can support that.”After that, discussion in the Situation Room turned to issuing a statement that would reassure Syrian Arab allies that the United States would not cut and run, and would reinforce Mr. Trump’s message that Persian Gulf states needed to do more to contribute to the stabilization and reconstruction of liberated areas.“The military mission to eradicate ISIS in Syria is coming to a rapid end, with ISIS being almost completely destroyed,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said in the statement issued on Wednesday. “The United States and our partners remain committed to eliminating the small ISIS presence in Syria that our forces have not already eradicated.”It was the latest instance of the president making an unscripted remark with far-reaching implications that prompted a behind-the-scenes scramble by his advisers to translate blunt talk into a workable policy. White House and administration officials also spent Monday and Tuesday trying to translate a series of confusing presidential tweets and comments on immigration into a coherent strategy, including a new legislative push and the deployment of the National Guard to the southern border.The statement on Syria was issued one day after Mr. Trump made plain his eagerness to pull American troops out, arguing that the United States had essentially already won the battle against the Islamic State and saying that “sometimes it’s time to come back home.”“I want to get out — I want to bring our troops back home,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday during a news conference with leaders of the Baltic nations. “It’s time. We were very successful against ISIS.”The White House insisted on Wednesday that the president had not walked back his position on bringing troops home from Syria, nor was he calling for a hasty withdrawal.“As the president’s maintained since the beginning, he’s not going to put an arbitrary timeline,” Ms. Sanders told reporters. “He is measuring it in actually winning the battle — not just putting some random number out there, but making sure we actually win, which we’ve been doing.”She said the ultimate decision on when to bring United States forces home “will be made by the Department of Defense and the secretary of defense, which the president has given authority to do that.” But it remains unclear how long Mr. Trump will be willing to wait for that determination.The president surprised even his own advisers last week when he first said publicly that the United States would soon remove troops from Syria.Mr. Trump was in Ohio delivering remarks on trade policy when he veered off topic and said, “We’re knocking the hell out of ISIS,” and added: “We’ll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now.”The next day, Mr. Trump directed the State Department to halt financial recovery assistance for Syria while his administration reconsidered its policy.By Tuesday, he said he was consulting with allies and would soon be ready to announce a new policy. The White House said the president spoke on Monday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia and “discussed joint efforts to ensure the enduring defeat of ISIS and counter Iranian efforts to exploit the Syrian conflict to pursue its destabilizing regional ambitions.”At the news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Trump gave a sharper account of the conversation, suggesting that the king had pressed him to maintain the American troop presence in Syria and that he had countered by saying, “Well, you know, you want us to stay, maybe you’re going to have to pay.”“Trump’s decision-making on Syria is head-spinningly indecisive — he talks about withdrawal, but is not withdrawing,” said Aaron David Miller, a vice president at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars who has advised administrations of both parties on foreign policy.At the same time, Mr. Miller added, “he’s brought a certain clarity to U.S. policy by making it unmistakably clear that U.S. troops are there to deal with ISIS, not Iran or the Assad regime, and indicated that the mission — though not accomplished — won’t last forever.”But while Mr. Trump has expressed enthusiasm for battling ISIS, he is in a sense reverting to the “America First” posture he pressed as a candidate, hoping to separate the United States from foreign involvement and military adventures abroad.Pentagon officials arguing against a sudden pullout pointed to the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq after former President Barack Obama withdrew troops from the country as a precedent that they said laid the groundwork for the militant organization to flourish there. And they said that the sacrifices made by the American military in Syria could be washed away if troops left precipitously.“A lot of very good military progress was made over the last couple years,” Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the head of Central Command, said during a conference in Washington on Tuesday.“But again, the hard part I think is in front of us, and that is stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back into their homes, addressing the long-term issues of reconstruction and other things that will have to be done,” General Votel said.Col. Ryan Dillon, the spokesman for the American-led coalition in Iraq and Syria, said that the Islamic State still held territory in the mid-Euphrates River Valley, and noted that defeating the remaining militants had proved difficult since offensive operations had all but ceased in the area.The slow pace of the campaign stems from losing Syrian Kurds — the American military’s key ally in the fight against the Islamic State — to a new fight against Turkish troops in the northwestern corner of the country.Operations are “not happening at the pace it was about a month and a half ago,” Colonel Dillon said.
BELGRADE, Serbia —  A Serbian court has sentenced seven people to up to 11 years in prison on charges that they have sent fighters and money to extremist groups in Syria.They were convicted and sentenced by the Belgrade High Court on Wednesday on accusations they have cooperated with the Islamic State and the Al-Nusra Front.Three of them were convicted in absentia, one of whom is believed to have been killed in the fighting in Syria.Hundreds of Muslims from the Balkans, including Serbia, Bosnia and Kosovo, have traveled to Syria to fight in Syria or Iraq.During the lengthy trial, the defendants, mostly from the southern Serbian region of Sandzak, denied the terrorism charges.
ANKARA —  Turkey, Iran and Russia pledged on Wednesday to accelerate efforts to bring stability to Syria, underlining their joint commitment to the country a day after President Donald Trump raised the prospect of withdrawing U.S. troops.A statement by the three countries after a summit meeting of their leaders in the Turkish capital Ankara said they were determined to "speed up their efforts to ensure calm on the ground" in Syria.While their decision to work together has done little to reduce violence, in part because of their own military interventions on opposing sides, it underlined their central role just as questions grow over Washington's presence in Syria.A senior U.S. official said Trump wanted U.S. forces out of Syria relatively soon. "We're not going to immediately withdraw but neither is the president willing to back a long-term commitment," the official said.Around 2,000 U.S. troops are deployed in northern Syria on a mission to battle the remnants of an Islamic State force that once controlled the area. Trump had said on Tuesday it was time to pull them out.Iran's President Hassan Rouhani said developments in Syria, where the Syrian army and its allies have driven back rebels in recent years, showed that the United States had "failed to topple the Syrian government" of President Bashar al-Assad."They wanted to fuel insecurity in order to maintain their own interests but they have gained no success," he told a news conference after talks with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin. He added, however, that he believed U.S. forces would stay in Syria.RIFTS CONTINUEIran and Russia have both strongly supported the Syrian president, while Turkey backed anti-Assad rebels. Those differences have continued on the ground despite their political cooperation aimed at winding down some of the violence.Turkey has waged a military campaign to drive Kurdish YPG fighters from northwestern Syria's Afrin district, while Russian air power and Iran-backed militias have supported Syrian army offensives in the Idlib and Ghouta regions.Iran's state television quoted Rouhani as telling Erdogan and Putin that Afrin should be handed over to Syria's army."The developments in Afrin can only be useful if they do not violate Syria's territorial integrity, and control of these areas should be handed over to the Syrian army," Rouhani said.Erdogan has said the Turkish army will extend its military operation after Afrin to the town of Tel Rifaat and then further east along Syria's border with Turkey - a prospect which has angered Tehran."Whatever the intentions are, Turkey's moves in Syria, whether in Afrin, Tel Rifaat or any other part of Syria, should be halted as soon as possible," a senior Iranian official told Reuters before Wednesday's talks.Seated alongside Putin and Rouhani, Erdogan focused on areas of common ground, saying that Turkey wanted to build a mobile hospital to help treat civilians coming from formerly rebel-controlled parts of eastern Ghouta, on the edge of Damascus, which the Syrian army has taken over.Rebel fighters and civilians who were evacuated from eastern Ghouta have been taken to the northwestern Syrian province of Idlib, which borders Turkey.Erdogan proposed providing a bakery to help feed refugees and build housing on both sides of the border."We can save these people from tents and container cities by building housing. We can, all together, make that zone safe," Erdogan said.(Additional reporting by Denis Pinchuk, Ece Toksabay and Tuvan Gumrukcu; Writing by Dominic Evans; Editing by Catherine Evans and Richard Balmforth)
WASHINGTON —  The U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday that a decision had been made on the future of American troops in war-torn Syria and the White House would make it public soon.Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats said the decision was reached at an "all hands on deck" National Security Council meeting on Tuesday.President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable. [nL2N1RG1HN]At the same time, Trump's advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilize areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.Trump said at a news conference the United States would "not rest until ISIS is gone," using an acronym for the militant group. But he also suggested that victory was imminent."It's time," Trump told reporters, when asked if he was inclined to withdraw American forces.The Pentagon and State Department have said a longer term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State's defeat is a lasting one.(Reporting by Jonathan Landay; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by David Gregorio)
Good morning. Australia’s pokie problem, uproar in Big Tech and relaxed snow monkeys. Here’s what you need to know:• Anger that YouTube was blocking her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the company’s headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself with the same handgun.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as “Green Nasim,” she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently “demonetized” — deliberately starved of ads — by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content._____• A rapidly escalating trade confrontation.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China struck back.Its own proposed tariffs target $50 billion worth of soybeans, above, cars and other American goods. We look at the broad swaths of the U.S. economy under threat.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic — but markets appear unconvinced. Stocks plunged in early U.S. trading, but recovered._____• Big uproar in Big Tech.Thousands of Google employees signed a letter protesting the company’s role in a Pentagon program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes.Amazon is the latest in a long line of companies that President Trump has denounced on Twitter, contributing to a drop in the online retailer’s stock. We checked the facts behind some of his criticisms.And Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, will testify before Congress next week on the company’s handling of sensitive user data. (Facebook raised its estimate of how many peoples’ data was improperly used by a consulting firm tied to President Trump, to as many as 87 million.)_____• Australians lose more money gambling, per capita, than any other people in the world. It’s not even close.The average Australian adult loses around $900 each year — about 50 percent more than second-placed Singaporeans, and more than double the rate of Americans.Electronic gambling machines known as pokies contribute to an extraordinary degree: a gargantuan 24 billion Australian dollars, or about $18.4 billion, each year.And war is brewing between venue operators and anti-gambling factions. Each is trying to woo state governments, which could regulate the machines but which rely on revenue from them._____• Japan’s famed snow monkeys are a photogenic wonder.Now, they’re also scientific subjects in a study of how stress hormones affect social structure.The long soaks bring their stress levels down. And higher-ranking females spent more time in the pools.(Our video of the basking macaques is seriously fun.)• On Spotify’s first day of trading, Sony cashed in, selling 17 percent of its stake in the streaming platform for more than $250 million.• “Production hell.” Tesla and its chief executive, Elon Musk, are learning what the rest of the car industry already knows: Producing a quarter of a million cars a year is daunting.• Grindr, the gay-dating app, has prompted an uproar for sharing users’ H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal information with outside companies.• And our Corner Office columnist speaks with Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit. (Among the topics: Metallica and his new marriage to Serena Williams.)• U.S. stocks had a rough day, but closed higher. Exchanges in Hong Kong and Shanghai are closed today. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• The White House said that the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State, a day after President Trump said he wanted to bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home quickly. [The New York Times]• The presidents of Turkey, Russia and Iran met in Ankara to discuss Syria’s future. The Iranian leader called for the U.S. to withdraw. [Al Monitor]• The Australian Taxation Office, joined by federal police officers, raided the home of a tax office employee who had been acting as a whistle-blower for an investigative report by “Four Corners” and Fairfax on abuses by his agency. [ABC]• “I won’t be challenging the sanctions.” The former captain Steve Smith accepted the 12-month playing ban issued by Cricket Australia for his role in the national team’s brazen ball-tampering scandal. [The Guardian]• Brazil’s highest court is expected to decide within hours whether a former president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, should be jailed while he appeals his corruption conviction. Jailing him would end his front-runner bid to return to office. [The New York Times]• Where is Googoosha? Uzbekistan adores its late dictator, Islam Karimov, but is trying hard to forget his daughter, once the country’s most famous person. [The New York Times]• An American football player may have thwarted a school shooting. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Do face masks really keep you healthy?• How to respond when a colleague is harassing women.• Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms.• Natural confusion: Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate.• In memoriam: William Prochnau, 80, a journalist and author of “Once Upon a Distant War,” about the group of reporters whose early warnings that the U.S. wasn’t winning in Vietnam went unheeded, but who felt “the wrath of every power structure they confronted — the White House, the Pentagon, the South Vietnamese government, the old guard of the press itself, even their own bosses.”• In Hong Kong, ever tinier apartments are making laundromats the hot new place to hang out.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant baker’s son who brought ballroom dancing into people’s living rooms, was born this week in 1895. With dance, Mr. Murray’s mission was, he said, to “bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.”The dance studio chain that bears his name now has 260 studios in 22 countries.A tall, gangly kid from the Bronx, Mr. Murray discovered “he had a flair for ballroom dancing” in high school and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night, eventually turning the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murray’s unique method was influenced by his time in design — clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming and had a weekly variety TV program with “The Arthur Murray Party.”For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames their partner.“To find fault with your partner’s dancing,” Mr. Murray once said, “is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.”Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____. 
WASHINGTON —  The Latest on President Donald Trump and Syria (all times local):11:10 a.m.The White House says the U.S. military mission to eradicate the Islamic State group in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" but offers no timetable for withdrawal.President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he wants to bring troops home to start rebuilding the U.S.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that the U.S. and its partners remain committed to eliminating the small Islamic State group presence that continues in Syria.Sanders says the administration will continue to consult with allies regarding future plans.Trump discussed Syria in a meeting with his national security team on Tuesday.___9:20 a.m.The director of national intelligence says the White House will announce a decision about U.S. involvement in Syria "relatively soon."Dan Coats told reporters Wednesday that top national security officials met Tuesday in an "all hands on deck" meeting and that "some decisions were made."President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we've almost completed that task."Trump's comments conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of who spoke at a separate event in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries.__12:11 a.m.President Donald Trump expects to decide very quickly whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission of defeating the Islamic State group is almost completed.Trump's comments at a White House event on Tuesday conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of who spoke at a separate event in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group.Later on Tuesday, Trump met with his national security team to discuss Syria.According to officials familiar with the preparations for the meeting, Trump's entire national security team strongly advised against a hasty withdrawal from Syria. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal talks.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump agreed in a National Security Council meeting this week to keep U.S. troops in Syria a little longer to defeat Islamic State but wants them out relatively soon, a senior administration official said on Wednesday.Trump did not approve a specific withdrawal timetable at Tuesday's meeting, the official said. He wants to ensure Islamic State militants are defeated but wants other countries in the region and the United Nations to step up and help provide stability in Syria, the official said."We’re not going to immediately withdraw but neither is the president willing to back a long-term commitment," the official said.Trump had signalled his desire to get U.S. forces out of Syria in a speech last Thursday in Ohio, and officials said he had privately been pressing for an early withdrawal in talks with his national security aides.Trump told a news conference on Tuesday with Baltic leaders that the United States was very successful against Islamic State but that "sometimes it’s time to come back home."His advisers have been urging him to maintain at least a small force in Syria to ensure the militants are defeated and to prevent Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's ally Iran from gaining an important foothold.The United States is conducting air strikes in Syria and has deployed about 2,000 troops on the ground, including special operations forces whose advice has helped Kurdish militia and other U.S.-backed fighters capture territory from Islamic State, also known as ISIS.White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders rejected concerns that a U.S. withdrawal from Syria might encourage deeper Iranian involvement in the country, saying U.S. allies and partners in the region could help with security."The purpose would be to ... train local enforcement as well as have our allies and partners in the region who have a lot more at risk to put more skin into the game," Sanders told a briefing. "Certainly that's something that the president wants to see happen, for them to step up and for them to do more."Sanders did not say which regional partners might play a role in Syria, but Trump has said Saudi Arabia should pay more if it wants the United States to remain.The White House said in a statement on Wednesday that the United States remained committed to eliminating ISIS in Syria, but it added that the U.S. military mission was "coming to a rapid end, with ISIS being almost completely destroyed."U.S. Army General Joseph Votel, who oversees U.S. troops in the Middle East as the head of Central Command, estimated on Tuesday that more than 90 percent of the group’s territory in Syria had been taken back since 2014.In the National Security Council meeting, Trump made clear that he did not want to stay in Syria for a lengthy period. The senior official said the impression Trump left was that he would like to withdraw in a year or less."He's not going to tolerate several years to a half decade," the official said.Brett McGurk, the U.S. special envoy for the global coalition against Islamic State, on Tuesday said: "We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission and our mission isn't over and we are going to complete that mission."(Reporting by Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Jonathan Landay, Doina Chiacu and Phil Stewart; Editing by Alistair Bell and James Dalgleish)
BAGHDAD —  Iraq may carry out special forces operations against Islamic State militants in neighbouring Syria to stop them infiltrating back into Iraq, an expert close to the Baghdad government said on Wednesday.While troops could be dropped into Syria, the plan did not at this stage involve sending ground forces over the border, Hisham al-Hashimi, who advises several governments on Islamic State, including Iraq's, told Reuters.Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi declared victory in Iraq over the jihadist group in December, but on Sunday he described the militants' presence in Syria as a real danger.With Baghdad on good terms with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Abadi stressed that any operations would be limited."Our plan is to move from fighting terrorism in Iraq in Iraq to fighting terrorism in the region ... We are not trespassing over our border or attacking neighbouring countries," he told a news conference, adding that the plan was being discussed by the Iraqi military leadership.Last year Iraqi warplanes carried out at least one strike on Islamic State targets inside Syria, in coordination with the U.S.-led anti-Islamic State coalition and with the approval of the Syrian government.Iraq also good relations with Iran and Russia, Assad's main backers in the seven-year Syrian civil war, while it receives at the same time strong support from the coalition.Abadi declared the victory five months after U.S.-backed Iraqi forces dislodged Islamic State militants from Mosul, their de facto capital in the north of the country.This put an end to the cross-border "caliphate" they declared in 2014 but Islamic State continues to carry out ambushes, assassinations and bombings across Iraq.Special forces from a number of countries already operate in Syria, including the United States, Russia and Iran. Turkey has also sent in ground forces to push Kurdish fighters away from its border.(Reporting by Maher Chmaytelli; editing by David Stamp)
MOSCOW —  Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that Islamic State had been defeated in Syria, but it retains its destructive potential and can attack countries around the world, Interfax news agency cited him as saying."It is evident that despite its military situation, this terrorist group retains a significant destructive potential, and the ability to change its tactics quickly and attack countries and regions around the world," Putin said, according to Interfax.(Writing by Polina Ivanova; Editing by Katya Golubkova)
MANBIJ, Syria —  A week ago, there was just a single house where U.S. soldiers had hoisted an American flag on a hill not far from a tense front line in Syria.On Wednesday, there was a growing fortified position with a perimeter of large sand barriers and barbed wire, a new watch tower and a half-dozen armored vehicles.Even as U.S. President Donald Trump spoke of pulling out of Syria "very soon," an Associated Press team saw American forces setting up front-line positions outside the strategic northern town of Manbij, west of the Euphrates River.The area is the scene of a tense standoff. U.S.-backed Kurdish-led forces who hold Manbij are facing off against Turkish-backed Syrian fighters.Turkey has vowed to retake Manbij and other Kurdish-held territory along the Syrian-Turkish border; the U.S. troops stationed here are a key reason why they are holding back.The U.S.-led coalition in Syria said last week that there were no U.S. bases in the area and that U.S. patrols were not fixed in one place.In response to an AP query, Pentagon spokesman Eric Pahon said the coalition cannot discuss specific movements and locations of forces in Syria.He said that commanders are delegated the authority and the responsibility to position people and resources needed to accomplish the mission and to protect themselves."Occasional modifications to force size would therefore be normal," Pahon said in an email.The AP team, which was escorted by Kurdish fighters, saw that the new U.S. outpost was a work in progress.A half-dozen armored vehicles sat on opposite sides of the outpost, each with a soldier on watch. A couple of soldiers at one end plowed the ground to lay sandbags, while another group worked out at the other end. Inside an observation post atop a roof, a soldier scanned the horizon through binoculars. A forklift was parked near some wooden planks, indicating more work remains to be done.The outpost was clearly visible from a main road, with civilians and a mosque nearby.A front-line commander in Manbij and a member of the Manbij Military Council, the joint Kurdish-Arab body leading the U.S.-allied forces here, said the post went up a week ago."We are 1 kilometer from (the village of) Datat, the front line. There is a new U.S. position constructed here. It has been here for seven or eight days here," said the commander, who spoke on condition of anonymity in line with the Kurdish-led force's regulations but goes by the nom de guerre of Ali Manbij.Previously, the U.S. forces only patrolled the front line and kept one position near Manbij, but now more forces are expected at the new post, the local commander said."Before, it was only patrols. Now it is better," he said. "It is to protect the area and to ensure that there is no attack from Turkey or from the mercenaries in the area."A Kurdish official on the site said more such posts are expected to be built along the more than 50-kilometer front line with Turkey-backed Syrian fighters.Trump and his national security team are having a contentious debate about the U.S. role in Syria, where the coalition has been fighting the Islamic State militant group since 2014. About 2,000 U.S. troops are in Syria. Manbij was liberated from IS control in 2016 after fierce battles that lasted nearly three months.Trump told reporters Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove the forces, saying their primary mission was to defeat IS."We've almost completed that task," he said.The White House said Wednesday the U.S. military mission in Syria was coming to "a rapid end" but offered no firm timeline for withdrawal.With allies anxious about a hasty U.S. withdrawal, the Trump administration said it would stay in Syria to finish the job of defeating IS and was committed to eliminating the militants' "small" presence that "our forces have not already eradicated.""We will continue to consult with our allies and friends regarding future plans," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a brief written statement. "We expect countries in the region and beyond, plus the United Nations, to work toward peace and ensure" that IS never comes back.The head of the U.S.-backed Manbij Military Council noted the conflicting statements from Washington but said the U.S. officials in Syria, including senior military commanders, have said "they will stay in Manbij."The council official, who spoke on condition of being identified only by his nom de guerre Mohammed Abu Adel in line with regulations, said other coalition forces may take over if the U.S. decides to withdraw."The statements from U.S. President Trump may cause concern on the street level. He is a president, after all, saying these things. This causes concern in the street but we hope they stay here," the official told AP. "These statements — we don't know their meaning exactly, but the forces are currently there on the front line."
