TEL ARBOUSH, Syria —  Syria's Assyrian community is marking the New Year by its calendar — and is celebrating its survival.The community, which traces its roots back to ancient Mesopotamia, has been devastated by years of war. The Islamic State group dealt them a near final blow when it overran their villages in 2015.Now some 1,000 remain in Syria, and many turned out to one of the destroyed villages for a New Year's party.
BEIRUT —  The Latest on the Syria conflict (all times local):10:15 p.m.The Russian military says rebels are leaving the town of Douma in the suburbs of Damascus.Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, of the Russian military's Reconciliation Center in Syria, said Monday that 1,146 rebels and their relatives have left Douma, in the eastern Ghouta suburbs, for the northern province of Idlib over the past 24 hours.Yevtushenko said in remarks carried by Russian news agencies that a total of 30,376 people have left Douma since Wednesday.The Syrian government and the Russian military backing it have demanded that the Army of Islam rebel group leave the area for northern Syria, following a devastating five-week government offensive in eastern Ghouta.The Russian military said the rebels will surrender maps of mined areas and underground tunnels when they leave Douma.___2:15 p.m.Russia's top diplomat says he is encouraged by U.S. President Donald Trump's talk of reducing the U.S. military presence in Syria.Trump said at an event in Ohio last week that the United States would be pulling out of Syria "very soon" despite the fact that that the State Department had been insisting for months that the U.S. needs to remain engaged there.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told reporters on Monday that Moscow is concerned that the United States has been "gaining a serious foothold" on the east bank of the Euphrates River despite Trump's earlier promises that the U.S. would leave when the Islamic State group is defeated. Lavrov said Trump's latest remarks show that "at least he is committed" to his original statements.Russia has been a key backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad, ultimately helping to turn the tide of the devastating civil war in his favor. The United States helped Kurdish-led forces drive IS from much of northern and eastern Syria, and has hundreds of troops embedded with them.___11:50 a.m.Syrian state media say the largest rebel group in Damascus' eastern Ghouta, the Army of Islam, has begun to evacuate from the area's last holdout town. The government is waiting for the rebels to leave the besieged town of Douma, just east of Damascus, before it can say it has full control of the area, after seven years of revolt. Douma is the last town to hold out against government forces in the once rebel-held suburbs.The SANA news agency says two buses carrying the rebels left Douma on Monday morning, heading for Jarablus, a town in north Syria shared between rebels and Turkish forces.There was no immediate comment from the Army of Islam. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group also reported the rebels' leaving Douma.
BEIRUT —  The last Syrian rebel group in eastern Ghouta near Damascus began withdrawing on Monday under an agreement with the government, state media said, though a military source said a group of insurgents were still rejecting the deal.Jaish al-Islam, which has been defending the eastern Ghouta town of Douma against a ferocious onslaught by Russian-backed Syrian government forces, has not confirmed the agreement with the government.If confirmed, the departure of Jaish al-Islam from Douma would mark the end of the war for eastern Ghouta, wiping out an opposition stronghold near Damascus and underlining President Bashar al-Assad's unassailable position in the war.It will mark his biggest victory over rebels fighting to unseat him since the recovery of eastern Aleppo in 2016.Indicating divisions in Jaish al-Islam, a Syrian military source told Reuters some of the fighters were rejecting the deal and the army would use force unless they accepted it."They will all have to agree to the settlement in the end," the source said.Syrian state TV said eight buses carrying 448 people - fighters and their families - had left Douma so far on Monday, en route for the north. State media has said the rebels are due to go to areas near the Turkish-Syrian border that are controlled by opposition groups.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the war, said dozens of buses had entered Douma early on Monday in readiness to evacuate the rebels and their families to the northern towns of Jarablus and al-Bab, near the Turkish border.The towns are located in a section of the Turkish-Syrian frontier where Turkey has carved out a buffer zone controlled on the ground by its military and allied fighters from Free Syrian Army rebel groups that are hostile to Assad.RETAKING CONTROLUnder the deal, Syrian state media said Jaish al-Islam would hand over heavy and medium-sized weapons and acknowledge the restoration of the Damascus government's control of Douma.The government lost control of Douma, the largest urban center in the eastern suburbs of Damascus, in the early phase of Syria's civil war, now in its eighth year.Thousands of rebels, their families and other civilians have already departed other parts of eastern Ghouta for Idlib province, another insurgent-held area of northern Syria.Tens of thousands more people have fled to shelters in government-held territory near Ghouta.The government offensive on Ghouta has been one of the deadliest of the war, killing more than 1,600 civilians, according to the Observatory. The government says it is restoring security to Damascus, which was regularly shelled from eastern Ghouta during the war.Assad, who has military support from Iran and Russia, now controls the bulk of Syria, though it may be difficult for him to recover much more territory without risking a collision with other foreign powers that have forces inside the country.The second largest chunk of Syrian territory is controlled by the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of militias spearheaded by the Syrian Kurdish YPG and supported by the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State.U.S. President Donald Trump added fresh uncertainty to the outlook for the conflict last week by indicating that the United States would soon be leaving Syria.Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria, two senior administration officials said on Friday, a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.Turkey, alarmed by the growth of Kurdish influence in Syria, has recently expanded its foothold in the north of the country by seizing the northwestern Afrin region from the YPG, supported by Turkey-backed Syrian militias.Rebels also still control a significant chunk of territory on the frontiers with Jordan and Israel, which are both anxious about the growth of Iranian influence in Syria.(Reporting by Dahlia Nehme; additional reporting by Firas Makdessi, editing by Tom Perry/Gareth Jones)
ANKARA —  Turkey has ordered the arrest of the Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen and seven others over the 2016 assassination of the Russian envoy to Turkey, the Haberturk newspaper said on Monday, a day before Russian President Vladimir Putin visits the country.Andrei Karlov was shot dead by an off-duty policeman while speaking at an Ankara exhibit opening in December 2016. The gunman shouted "Allahu Akbar" and "Don't forget Aleppo!" as he opened fire, apparently referring to Russia's involvement in neighboring Syria. He was shot dead by police at the scene.Putin arrives on a two-day visit on Tuesday and will meet President Tayyip Erdogan and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani. Their three countries are the guarantors of the Astana peace talks that has set up "de-escalation" zones across war-torn Syria.Erdogan said Gulen's movement was behind the assassination, a charge the cleric has denied. Erdogan also blames the preacher's network for an attempted military coup in July 2016.Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in the United States since 1999, has denied the charge and condemned the coup.Haberturk said the authorities ordered the arrests of the eight as the killing was carried out on their orders.Authorities have so far arrested seven others, including three policeman, in relation to the killing, the Hurriyet newspaper reported.No one was immediately available for comment at the Ankara prosecutor's office.The gunman came from Soke in southwest Turkey, considered one of the country's most secular regions. His father said his son's behavior started changing after he joined the police academy, where he became more pious, according to media reports at the time.While the slogans he shouted suggest he was sympathetic to radical Islamist ideology, Gulen's network preaches interfaith dialogue. The Turkish government says such teachings are designed to mask the true nature of what they call a dangerous, secretive organization.(Writing by Ece Toksabay; Editing by David Dolan and Hugh Lawson)
Good morning. Signs of an assassin in Britain, a thaw in Uzbekistan and a rebel queen in Denmark. Here’s the latest:• President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a “dangerous” flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s hard-line stance on immigration.Separately, our reporters examine how Mr. Trump’s rise to power has affected the wealthy, scandal-racked family of Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and presidential adviser. (Hint: It hasn’t been good.)_____• British officials believe an assassin smeared a Soviet-developed nerve agent on the door handle of Sergei Skripal’s home, above, suggesting a high-level plot hatched by the Kremlin.Since the poison, Novichok, is so potent and dangerous, the British authorities suspect that only a highly trained professional — on orders from the highest levels of the Russian government — could have administered it to the former Russian double agent and his daughter.That theory is raising questions about the role of Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, in the attack, which has raised tensions between Russia and the West to their highest point since the Cold War._____• Bucking a global trend toward authoritarianism, Uzbekistan’s new leader is reining in the secret police, releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression.It’s still too dangerous to utter the name of the country’s vicious security service in public, but human rights activists say repression has eased, if only slightly.The changes reflect a struggle between the new president and the brutal police state he is trying to tame. (Above, a memorial complex near Bukhara, Uzbekistan, in February.)_____• A “rebel queen.”In Denmark, where most public statues represent white men, two artists unveiled the country’s first public monument to a black woman. The sculpture, above, is a tribute to Mary Thomas, who led a fiery 1878 revolt against Danish colonial rule in the Caribbean._____• Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the “carnage” in “the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria” and urged “reconciliation” in the Middle East. The pope also baptized eight people into the Roman Catholic faith, including a Nigerian migrant who has been called a hero in Italy for foiling a robbery in Rome.Meanwhile, the Vatican will hold an exorcism training course for priests, as demands for the ridding of demonic possession have soared around the world, including in Britain, where the practice has reportedly become a “booming industry.”• Technology companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazon’s Alexa Super Bowl ad.)• The Chinese government retaliated against President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum by slapping tariffs as high as 25 percent on imports of 128 American-made products, including pork and seamless steel pipes.• Facebook’s latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending growth at any cost — even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.)• People are trying to boycott the big tech companies amid a backlash. The problem is that Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Google are nearly inescapable.• In Britain, thousands of companies with at least 250 employees must publish figures by Wednesday showing their gender pay gap for the fiscal year ending in 2017. Here are other headlines to watch for this week.• Many markets are closed for the Easter holiday. Here’s a snapshot of other global markets.• In the U.S. push for gun control, both advocates and opponents think the other side will eventually give up. “It’ll go away,” said a 77-year-old man, above, who owns about 75 guns. “Like all the other times.” [The New York Times]• North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, was in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times]• A Bulgarian government commission alleges that Julia Kristeva, one of France’s most respected philosophers, was also a Communist-era secret agent. Ms. Kristeva dismissed the accusation as “fake news” and a “barefaced lie.” [The New York Times]• Israel and the Palestinians are waging a public relations battle over the shooting deaths of 15 Palestinians by Israeli troops during violent protests at the Gaza border. [The New York Times]• A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old maid from the Philippines, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Deutsche Welle]• April Fools? An alligator in the swimming pool, a Trump hotel room jail cell, and other news stories that sound like hoaxes — but aren’t. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Working out is great for you. Here’s how to start.• For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes.• Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo.• The U.S. defense secretary, Jim Mattis, above, was dismissed as a warmonger during the Obama presidency. But as global tensions rise under President Trump, he may be the only reliable voice of caution left in an administration inching closer to the brink.• In memoriam: Johan van Hulst, 107, a Dutch educator who helped save 600 Jewish children from the Nazis. Despite his efforts, he was haunted by those he couldn’t save. “You know for a fact that the children you leave behind are going to die. I took 12 with me. Later on, I asked myself, ‘Why not 13?’”• Can Europe lead on privacy? In an opinion piece, a former U.S. official hails new E.U. rules that let consumers control their private information online and says they can actually help Americans, too — especially since President Trump signed a law prohibiting such safeguards.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.“The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan,” The Times noted last year.Guests receive souvenir wooden eggs as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and they’re also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.U.S. editions.)
BEIRUT —  Syrian state media said Monday that the largest rebel group in the suburbs of Damascus has begun evacuating its last stronghold after seven years of war, but the rebels refused to say whether they had surrendered, and it was unclear who was on board a dozen buses seen leaving the town.Residents trapped inside Douma expressed fear that further foot-dragging could provoke another major government offensive, like the one that killed an estimated 1,600 people across the eastern Ghouta suburbs in February and March."We don't know what our choices are, we don't know what's in store for us," said local media activist Haitham Bakkar.Douma was one of the earliest hubs of the Arab Spring uprising against President Bashar Assad that swept through the country in 2011. Just 11 kilometers (7 miles) from the Old City of Damascus, it was part of the capital's Ghouta hinterland, once famed for its orchards and produce. The government responded to the protests by putting Douma and other suburbs around Damascus under siege, bombing hospitals and residential areas, and blocking the entry of food and medical relief.On Monday, more than 600 people evacuated the town on buses sent by the government and the Syrian Red Crescent to take them to Jarablus, a northern Syrian town controlled by Turkish troops and allied Syrian forces.State media said those on board were fighters and family members belonging to the Army of Islam, the largest rebel group in eastern Ghouta. The Saudi-backed group, which has deep roots in the region, has held firm in recent weeks as virtually all the other insurgents of eastern Ghouta have reached deals to relocate to the rebel-held north.The Russian military, which is allied with Assad's forces, said 1,146 rebels and their relatives have left Douma for the northern province of Idlib over the past 24 hours. Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, of the Russian military's Reconciliation Center in Syria, said in remarks carried by Russian news agencies that more than 30,000 people have left Douma since Wednesday.The Army of Islam has refused to respond to media requests for comment. Syrian activists say the group has told them it is determined to remain in Douma. The group is estimated to command 10,000 fighters in the town, and possess a formidable arsenal of tanks and other heavy weaponry, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the civil war through a network of activists on the ground.Observatory head Rami Abdurrahman said the Army of Islam is divided over whether to evacuate Douma, with hard-liners demanding they stay and fight.He said the buses leaving Douma on Monday were transporting wounded fighters as a first step in the evacuations. Bakkar, the media activist, said the evacuees were wounded civilians. Douma local council member Iyad Abdelaziz said the buses were for medical evacuations and "humanitarian cases."The Army of Islam ruled Douma with an iron fist, and embodied a more conservative and intolerant vision for Syria than the one promoted by the civil uprising of 2011. It has been accused of abducting human rights activists and committing abuses as it crushed rival groups. Its power largely derived from Saudi aid and its control of an extensive smuggling network in eastern Ghouta.In the spring of 2015, it held a massive military parade that included thousands of opposition fighters marching in formation and a striking display of tanks and armored vehicles at the doors of the Syrian capital.As government forces have steadily reclaimed towns and villages in eastern Ghouta, they have given rebels and men of fighting age the choice of accepting amnesty and serving in the Syrian military, or relocating to rebel-held areas in northern Syria. More than 40,000 rebels and their family members have chosen to relocate, according to the Russian military.Russia is a key backer of Assad and supported the latest government offensive. More than 120,000 people fled their homes under the five-week assault, seeking safety behind government lines, according to the Russian military.Local activists say over 100,000 civilians are trapped inside Douma, which has suffered catastrophic damage.On Sunday, the Syrian government-linked Central Military Media outlet said that once the evacuations are completed, a local council for Douma would be formed with the approval of the central government.It said Russia, Iran, and Turkey — which have negotiated local settlements in different parts of Syria — would oversee the handover of prisoners held by the Army of Islam to the government. Iran has backed Assad throughout the civil war, while Turkey has cast itself as a sponsor of the opposition, along with the Arab Gulf countries.The government was not party to the negotiations over Douma, which were conducted between Russia and the Army of Islam. Ahmad Ramadan, an opposition figure, revealed on Sunday that Turkey was party to the talks as well."If there is an agreement, the Russian military police will enter and be a buffer force between us and the government," said Abdelaziz, the local council member.Turkey, with the support of allied Syrian opposition forces, is carrying out its own military operations in northern Syria, against a U.S.-allied Kurdish militia.Abu Ali Nejm, a commander in the Kurdish-held town of Manbij, said reports of the relocation of the Army of Islam to the nearby town of Jarablus were troubling."For sure this is not in our interest," he said in a series of messages. "But there are currently reinforcements from the coalition forces and things are now ok. " He said U.S.-led forces have increased their presence along the front line opposite the Turkey-led forces.___Associated Press writer Sarah El Deeb in Qamishli, Syria contributed to this report.
ANKARA, Turkey —  Ties between Russia and Turkey are growing closer than ever, as Russia runs into widespread diplomatic fallout from the poisoned spy scandal and Turkey's relations with its Western allies worsens over human rights issues and its military operations against Kurdish militia in Syria.Russian President Vladimir Putin heads back to Turkey on Tuesday, joining Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at a symbolic ground-breaking ceremony for a Russian-made nuclear power plant being built on Turkey's Mediterranean coast at Akkuyu. On Wednesday, Putin, Erdogan and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani are expected to hold a summit in the Turkish capital of Ankara to discuss Syria's future.Turkey and Russia have put aside their traditional rivalries and differences on regional issues to forge strong economic ties. In December, they finalized an agreement for Turkey to purchase Russia's long-range S-400 missile defense system, a deal that raised eyebrows among some of Turkey's NATO allies. Aside from the power plant, the two countries are also building the "Turkstream" pipeline to transport Russian gas to Turkey."Turkish-Russian relations are in a better mood compared with two years before . both parties are working together," said Mitat Celikpala, a professor of international relations at Istanbul's Kadir Has University."They managed to compartmentalize issues," Celikpala said, citing Turkish and Russian divisions, including over the divided island of Cyprus and Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea. "If you set aside all those issues . they are good partners for the resolution of immediate interests."Their warming relations come as ties between European Union nations and Turkey have become increasingly testy.Turkey's EU membership talks have stalled and many EU countries have voiced concerns over the Turkish government's growing authoritarian turn and its crackdown on rights and freedoms, especially following an attempted coup in 2016 that Turkey blames on a U.S.-based Islamic cleric.Turkey in turn, accuses EU countries of supporting Kurdish rebels as well as the alleged perpetrators of the 2016 failed coup.Turkey's relations with the United States have fared even worse, with Turkey accusing Washington of harboring the cleric, Fethullah Gulen, and backing Syrian Kurdish militia that Turkey considers to be terrorists.Last week, Turkey announced it would not be following NATO and EU allies in ousting Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning in Britain of a former Russian spy. Britain has accused Russia of being behind the nerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, prompting nearly two dozen nations to expel over 150 Russian diplomats. Russia has responded by expelling a similar number of envoys.Turkey condemned the nerve agent attack on British soil without naming Russia, adding that it enjoyed "positive" relations with Moscow."Just because some countries took a step based on an allegation, we don't have to take the same step," Erdogan said.Putin and Erdogan have met several times in the past year and regularly speak on the phone.Russia and Turkey — along with Iran — are also working together to create "de-escalation zones" to reduce the fighting in Syria and bring the sides of the conflict together to negotiate Syria's future.The cooperation comes despite their positions on opposing sides in the Syrian conflict —with Moscow siding with Syrian President Bashar Assad and Turkey supporting his foes since the start of the Syrian war seven years ago.The conflicting interests led to the downing of a Russian warplane by a Turkish jet at the Syrian border in November 2015, which put the two nations on the verge of a direct military conflict.Russia responded by barring packaged tourist tours to Turkey and halting the imports of agricultural products. The two reconciled after Erdogan issued an apology.__Wieting reported from Istanbul.
ANKARA —  Turkey's TAEK atomic energy authority on Monday granted Russian builder Rosatom a construction license to start work on the first unit of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant, the state-run Anadolu news agency said.The grant comes a day before a visit by Russian President Vladimir Putin to Ankara, where Putin and Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan will also attend a ceremony to officially launch Akkuyu's first unit."As a result of the construction license process, an important step in the project started nearly three years ago, being completed ... it has been decided by TAEK to grant a construction license for the construction of the first unit of the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant," Anadolu quoted a TAEK statement.The $20 billion, 4,800 megawatt (MW) plant, is part of Erdogan's "2023 vision" marking 100 years since the founding of modern Turkey and is intended to reduce Turkey's dependence on energy imports.However, since Russia was awarded the contract in 2010, the project has been beset by delays.Last month, sources familiar with the matter said Akkuyu was likely to miss its 2023 target start-up date, but Rosatom, which is looking for local partners to take a 49 percent stake in the project, said it is committed to the timetable.The Interfax news agency later cited the head of Rosatom saying that the sale of the 49 percent stake was likely to be postponed from this year until 2019.Turkish companies have been put off by the size of the financing required as well as by concerns they will not receive a sufficient share of the lucrative construction side of the deal, two industry sources have said.Putin will make a two-day visit to Turkey from Tuesday where he will meet Erdogan and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani for a summit on Syria.(Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu and Orhan Coskun, editing by David Evans)
ISLAMABAD —  Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai left Pakistan for London on Monday after a four-day whirlwind visit back to her homeland, her first since militants nearly killed her in 2012, an official said.Yousafzai and her family were taken to Islamabad airport in a security convoy and they boarded a London-bound flight, said aviation official Akmal Kayani.Yousafzai, known by her first name, Malala, has been in Pakistan since Thursday, on her first trip home since Pakistani Taliban militants shot her in the head on her way home from school for advocating for greater education for girls.After the attack, Yousafzai was airlifted abroad and underwent surgery.Malala on Saturday visited her old home in the Swat valley, a mountain region northwest of Islamabad, which was under the control of the militants for about two years until the army launched an offensive to clear them out."I miss everything about Pakistan ... from the rivers, the mountains, to even the dirty streets and the garbage around our house," Malala, 20, told Reuters in an interview on Friday.A family friend said earlier Malala planned to return home after completing her education at Oxford University, where she is reading for a degree in politics, philosophy and economics.Malala wrote an anonymous blog for the BBC Urdu service as a schoolgirl during the Taliban rule and later became outspoken in advocating more educational opportunities for girls.In 2014, Malala became the youngest Nobel laureate, honoured for her work with the Malala Foundation, a charity she set up to support education advocacy groups with a focus on Pakistan, Nigeria, Jordan, Syria and Kenya.(Reporting by Asif Shahzad; Editing by Robert Birsel)
