WASHINGTON — Whether it is the Paris climate accord or the Iran nuclear deal, President Trump has moved methodically to dismantle the foreign policy legacy of his predecessor Barack Obama. Except for Syria, on which Mr. Trump has faithfully echoed Mr. Obama’s hands-off policy.Mr. Trump’s statement on Tuesday — that “I want to bring our troops back home; I want to start rebuilding our nation” — underscored again how similarly he and Mr. Obama view the United States’ role in the overlapping conflicts in Syria.Both men have doubted the wisdom of a long-term American military commitment in the country. Both have complained that Saudi Arabia expects the United States to bear the burden of a costly war against President Bashar al-Assad. Both have viewed Syria primarily through the prism of combating the Islamic State.Though Mr. Trump’s aides made much of his order to fire Tomahawk missiles at Mr. Assad’s airfields last spring — an order that Mr. Obama famously refused to give four years earlier — it was the exception that proved the rule.Mr. Trump, a former senior adviser said, does not believe that Syria’s civil war is a vital national security interest of the United States. Neither did Mr. Obama, which is why he initially rebuffed proposals to funnel weapons to the rebels in Syria or to impose a no-fly zone over parts of the country.“Both men retreat from the idea of getting deeply involved in other countries’ civil wars,” said Robert S. Ford, the last American ambassador to Syria. “Both of them are instinctively more concerned about the American economy and things at home, even if they have very different visions of America.”Mr. Ford, who now teaches at Yale and is a senior fellow at the Middle East Institute, said Mr. Trump, like Mr. Obama, was right to worry about “mission creep” in the military’s operations in Syria.The American-led coalition, Mr. Ford noted, has recently bombed Syrian forces, backed by Iranian militias and Russian mercenaries, who were advancing on oil fields held by the Syrian Democratic Forces, a mostly Arab faction that is fighting with the United States against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.“This wasn’t about ISIS,” Mr. Ford said. “This was about keeping the Syrians out of the oil fields held by our buddies.”The Trump administration’s debates over Syria carry a distinct echo of those during the Obama administration. Both presidents confronted aides pushing more aggressive options. In Mr. Trump’s case, the Pentagon is pleading for more time to mop up in Syria, warning that a hasty exit will jeopardize the gains made in the campaign against the Islamic State. In Mr. Obama’s case, the C.I.A. and the State Department both advocated arming the rebels.At a National Security Council meeting on Tuesday, a frustrated Mr. Trump pressed his top military advisers for how long it would take to root out the remaining Islamic State fighters and to train local forces to stabilize Syrian territory freed from the militant group.In 2012, Mr. Ford recalled, a skeptical Mr. Obama quizzed his aides about how arming a ragtag band of Syrian rebels could lead to a negotiated end to the war.Both leaders also share the same skepticism of the motives of allies. Mr. Obama railed against Saudi Arabia, which had lobbied Washington to arm the rebels, as a free rider. Mr. Trump said Tuesday that if Saudis were so eager for the United States to stay engaged in Syria, they should help finance the campaign.“I said, ‘Well, you want us to stay, maybe you’ll have to pay,’” Mr. Trump said during a news conference, apparently referring to a call he had with King Salman of Saudi Arabia. “It is very costly for our country. And it helps other countries a hell of a lot more than it helps us.”Mr. Trump is more transactional in his approach than was Mr. Obama. The former president, his aides said, tended to focus on whether a strategy was financially sustainable over time, while the current president views foreign affairs as a strict balance sheet.Trump administration officials insist there are other differences. Mr. Trump, they said, agreed to arm the Syrian Kurds — a crucial step that enabled these battle-hardened soldiers to fight alongside American troops in retaking the Syrian city of Raqqa.Mr. Obama did not arm the Kurds, mainly because his aides were caught up in a debate over whether it would antagonize Turkey. The Turks view the Kurdish militia as closely linked to the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, a separatist group known as the P.K.K., which threatens Turkey. Mr. Obama did come around to supporting the idea of arming the Kurds, but only at the end of his presidency.Mr. Trump, officials said, has given his military commanders more flexibility to deploy troops, which they said had accelerated the defeat of the Islamic State. But analysts said Mr. Obama planted the seeds for the victory by orchestrating the multinational military campaign to begin with.“While Obama and Trump may share an aversion to escalating the conflict, their instincts led in different directions,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a former deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama. “Obama was more focused on diplomacy with the key players, while Trump has shown little inclination to focus on the diplomatic track.”Mr. Obama’s diplomatic ambitions, some argue, are the key to understanding why he shunned deeper involvement in Syria.“For Obama, it was fear of alienating Iran from a nuclear deal, the jewel in the crown of his foreign policy,” said Frederic C. Hof, a former special envoy to Syria in the Obama administration. “For Trump, it is an instinctive belief that anything the U.S. is doing in the Middle East is a waste of time and money.”Yet Mr. Obama, too, lamented that American military adventures in the region usually ended in ashes. He often drew an analogy to Libya, where he had authorized a military intervention in 2011 that left the country in shambles.With their reluctance to get involved, Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump may find themselves united in another way. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump regularly castigated Mr. Obama for withdrawing American troops from Iraq too abruptly in 2011 — a decision that he said allowed the Islamic State to take root and flourish.Now, as Mr. Trump pushes his commanders for a speedy exit from Syria, he faces the same danger.“What the Department of Defense is worried about is a three-plus-year military campaign against ISIS going down the drain,” Mr. Hof said. “If you wanted to write a script for the resurgence of an Islamist regime, this is it.”
WASHINGTON — The United States military is spending about $1 million to help detain thousands of Islamic State fighters and their family members in makeshift camps run by Kurdish militias in northern Syria, pulling the Pentagon deeper into the war zone detention operations it has sought to avoid.The dilemma is unfolding even as President Trump has pledged to withdraw the 2,000 remaining United States troops in Syria, many of whom are vetting the most dangerous detainees, and suspend more than $200 million in State Department recovery funds for the country.Defense Department and Kurdish officials said several thousand detainees — including at least 400 fighters from more than three dozen countries and their families, as well as other Syrian militants — were being held in several camps. The American funding is paying to erect fencing, put bars on windows and otherwise secure schools and other buildings being used as temporary jails for fighters who were captured or surrendered after last year’s collapse of Raqqa, the Islamic State’s self-proclaimed capital.Military officials insist American personnel are not strengthening the buildings or guarding the detainees themselves, just paying for it.Critics fear the facilities could become breeding grounds for extremists and repeat a key security miscue of the Iraq war. But without the American assistance, the camps lack sufficient security to prevent jailbreaks of battle-hardened militants who could reinvigorate pockets of Islamic State fighters near Abu Kamal, a town in eastern Syria along the Iraqi border.Syrian Kurdish officials said the camps were straining their capacity to oversee the dangerous fighters and rapidly depleting their budgets to pay for operations at the half-dozen sites in and around Raqqa. One senior American official said as many as 50 to 60 fighters were detained in a single room.“The process has been tedious,” Kino Gabriel, a spokesman for the Kurdish-led militia known as the Syrian Democratic Forces, said by WhatsApp from Qamishli, Syria. “The interrogation is taking time, and filtering the prisoners has not been an easy task. We need all kinds of support from the international coalition.”American diplomats and Pentagon officials are frantically trying to persuade countries to repatriate their citizen fighters who have been detained, but so far have had few takers.“It is critical that countries take their citizens back and prosecute them in a timely manner commensurate with their crimes,” Nathan A. Sales, the State Department’s counterterrorism coordinator, said in an email. “We call on our partners to take responsibility for their citizens.”The Islamic State has lost nearly all the territory it seized in Iraq and Syria in 2014. But American intelligence and military officials warn that the extremist group has pivoted to a deadly insurgency in areas it formerly controlled, and still holds sway with a potent appeal on social media for adherents from Europe to the Philippines to carry out attacks wherever they are.Two commandos — one American soldier, one British — were killed in a roadside bombing last week in Manbij, a contested city in northern Syria.“Although ISIS has been decimated in Iraq and Syria, its ideology still resonates globally,” David M. Cattler, the government’s national intelligence manager for the Near East, said last month. “ISIS is evolving and adjusting.”Unlike suspected Islamic State militants seized in neighboring Iraq — mostly from the northern city of Mosul and surrounding areas — the detainees being held in the Kurdish region of Syria fall into a legal gray area and face an uncertain long-term fate.Kurdish authorities are parceling out justice in ad hoc courts, but the region is still part of Syria, and Kurdish control is not internationally recognized.In a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee last month, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, raised concerns about American culpability for the growing number of fighters in the custody of the Syrian Democratic Forces.“Do you think we have a credible plan to detain these people?” Mr. Graham asked Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the head of the military’s Central Command, which oversees operations in the Middle East.“We actually do have a plan to detain them on the ground,” General Votel said. He also noted the effort to repatriate the detainees.“If they don’t go back to their countries, do you think we have a plan — credible plan — to detain them inside of Syria long term?” Mr. Graham asked.“We are working on improving the capacity of the Syrian Democratic Forces to do that right now,” General Votel said. He offered no details, but a senior American military official said the Pentagon planned to spend about $1 million on the improvements. The funding, however, may now be in doubt, given Mr. Trump’s vow last week to withdraw troops and aid from Syria.Still, the Pentagon has openly acknowledged the security problem.“These aren’t necessarily the best detention facilities, in the sense of they are being held in Syria, and not in the most secure area,” Kathryn Wheelbarger, principal deputy assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs, said in February. “There were certain days where we are seeing 40 to 50 a day were being captured, so a capacity problem is very real.”Teams of specialists from the International Committee of the Red Cross have visited the detention sites in Syria. A spokeswoman for the organization, Anna Nelson, declined to comment on the conditions in the camps, following organization policy.Kurdish officials have said that conditions in the camps meet international standards, especially for women and children, and that Kurdish authorities were sorting out combatants from local civilians who were pressed by the Islamic State into administrative or medical jobs, and could be safely released.United States Special Operations troops advising the Kurdish-led militia are cataloging fingerprints and other so-called biometrics of the more than 400 suspected foreign fighters in at least three camps near Raqqa. The American forces are also interrogating the detainees to learn more about foreign fighter networks and threats to their home countries.“They’re taking the time to go through the prisoners and know who they are,” Mr. Cattler said during remarks at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “It’s critically important.”Indeed, American officials were able to identify through biometric screening two British men infamous for their role in the Islamic State’s imprisonment, torture and killing of Western hostages.The men, Alexanda Kotey and El Shafee Elsheikh, were part of a group of four Islamic State militants known as the Beatles because of their British accents. They were the last two members of the group to remain at large.American military officials and human rights advocates see parallels between the evolving detention situation in Syria and the Iraq war. Militants, including Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the current leader of the Islamic State, were held for years at Camp Bucca, a sprawling American detention center in southern Iraq where they became more radicalized.One of the main reasons to strengthen the makeshift camps in Syria is to prevent any jailbreaks, like one in February in which a handful of Islamic State fighters escaped, military officials said.A series of daring but little-noticed breakouts from Iraqi prisons several years ago freed hundreds of hardened militants who are now among the leaders and foot soldiers of the Islamic State and other radical Sunni groups operating in neighboring Syria and, increasingly, in Iraq itself.That group even had a name for its prison strategy, Operation Breaking the Walls, which unfolded during a 12-month campaign from July 2012 until a major break at Abu Ghraib, the main Iraqi prison, on the western outskirts of Baghdad, in July 2013.Eventually, some 40,000 fighters from more than 120 countries joined the battles in Syria and Iraq over the past four years, American and other Western officials said. While thousands died on the battlefield, officials said many thousands more probably slipped away to conflicts in Libya, Yemen or the Philippines, or went into hiding in countries like Turkey.About 295 Americans are believed to have traveled to aid extremists in Iraq or Syria, or tried to, United States officials said.
The United States ground war in Syria started in late 2015, when the Obama administration ordered a small deployment of roughly 50 troops. The American public saw little of the engagement: a few photos of familiar-looking soldiers in familiar-looking armored vehicles. The White House and the Pentagon stressed that the war in Syria against the Islamic State was being waged by Kurdish and Arab allies — small groups that American commandos were just “advising and assisting.” The American war, it seemed then, was primarily fought from the sky, taking the form of thousands of airstrikes.As the months passed, the number of American troops on the ground increased.Today roughly 2,000 American troops live in Syria. The Islamic State’s de facto capital, Raqqa, is littered with rubble and explosives, and some of the Islamic State’s holdouts occupy a small slice of the Euphrates River Valley. President Trump has said he wants the Pentagon’s forces to leave.“I want to get out — I want to bring our troops back home,” Trump said on Tuesday during a news conference with leaders of Baltic nations. “It’s time. We were very successful against ISIS.”Trump’s statement ran almost directly opposite Pentagon plans, which were communicated at roughly the same time Tuesday by Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the top officer at the military’s United States Central Command. On Wednesday, Trump adopted the Pentagon’s view. The White House released a statement saying that the American military was going nowhere until the Islamic State was “eradicated” in Syria.Amid all the mixed messaging, images of newly built American bases in the Syrian city Manbij had already started appearing online. They showed armored vehicles, watchtowers and a fluttering American flag — above outposts that no longer look so hasty.The Associated Press reported Wednesday that United States troops were building new positions near the front line close to the Syrian-Turkish border, a corridor no longer bordered by the Islamic State. This is now terrain held by Turkish-backed militants and Turkey’s uniformed military, which is threatening a new offensive into the city to rid it of United States-backed Kurdish militias. The American forces now must deal with the remnants of the Islamic State in the region and also act as a main deterrence against advancing Turkish forces.Neither the apparently expanding network of American outposts nor their occupants look aligned with the war that was supposed to be waged by only small groups of Special Operation forces. The structures look much like the fighting positions once seen in Iraq and Afghanistan, which projected a clear message: “We’re here for a while.”Photos from Manbij show American bases, marked by their flags, camouflage netting and armored vehicles, including M-ATVs and MRAPs — troop transports, designed to withstand roadside bombs, that became common sights on the roads in Iraq and Afghanistan.A tweet posted Tuesday by StrategicNews1 shows a male service member, shirtless and in shorts, near a mortar pit. Behind him was a bunker with ammo crates inside. Its walls were built with sandbags, and the roof was made from what looked like an Air Force cargo pallet. To his right was an Emtas, an enhanced 120-millimeter mortar system with a range of four miles.At the far corner of the screen was a wheeled mortar system, still stored.Behind the soldier was a pink lawn chair. He looked ready to settle in.
MANBIJ, Syria —  Even as President Donald Trump mulls a U.S. pullout from Syria, insisting that the Islamic State group is "almost completely defeated," the extremist group is showing signs of a revival.Despite being kicked out of the main towns they once occupied near the Iraqi border, the militants have regrouped elsewhere and revised their tactics, recently mounting a brazen attack on a border city in eastern Syria and expanding their footprint inside the Syrian capital itself.Talk of a U.S. troop withdrawal has alarmed the United States' main ally in Syria, the Kurds, who fought alongside the Americans to roll back the Islamic State group. They fear not only an IS resurgence, but also that without U.S. troops in the country, Turkey, Russia and Iran will fill the void and wrest control of northern and eastern Syria.The White House said Wednesday that the U.S. military mission against IS in Syria is coming to a "rapid end," but offered no timetable for the withdrawal of the 2,000 U.S. troops other than to say they will leave just as soon as the last remaining IS fighters can be vanquished.Trump, however, has signaled to his advisers that ideally, he wants all troops out within six months, according to three U.S. officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to discuss what transpired in a meeting with the president.Developments on the ground, however, suggest it will be difficult, if not impossible, to completely snuff out the group before then."Daesh is not over," said the commander of the U.S.-backed Manbij Military Council, the joint Kurdish-Arab body administering this strategic northern Syrian town."Daesh still has cells present in all areas and every now and then there are problems in areas where the cells are still operating," said the commander, who spoke on condition he be identified only by his nom de guerre, Mohammed Abu Adel, in line with regulations, and referred to IS by its Arabic acronym.Speaking to the Associated Press on Wednesday, he said the U.S. statements about a pullout were a cause for "concern on the street level" but that Kurdish officials were receiving reassurances from U.S. generals on the ground that American troops were staying.Last week, an explosion killed two coalition personnel, an American and a Briton, during an operation to capture a known IS member in Manbij, where U.S. troops maintain a large presence. It was the first such blast to hit the U.S.-led coalition since it deployed in the town months after the U.S.-backed forces liberated it from IS in 2016 following fierce battles that lasted nearly three months.Since then, the town has served as a model of stabilization, but officials are now expressing concern about IS attempting to re-emerge.The U.S.-backed forces — a mix of Kurdish and Arab fighters known as the Syrian Democratic Forces, or SDF, — routed IS militants from almost all the territory the extremists controlled in northern Syria, including the group's de facto capital of Raqqa, in October. In November, a coalition of Iranian, Iraqi, Syrian and Russian forces secured the militant's last urban stronghold, Boukamal, in eastern Syria on the border with Iraq.That seemed to herald victory over the militants. The various sides then turned their attention to pursuing their own interests in the disintegrated country.The IS militants kept a sliver of territory along the Euphrates River near Boukamal, and some nebulous zones of control in the desert of eastern Syria and on the border with Iraq — but nothing that seemed beyond containment.But in a surprise attack, the militants stormed Boukamal on Monday, triggering heavy fighting before Iranian-backed Shiite militias beat them out, according to a war monitoring group and Syrian opposition activists with connections to the region. Approximately 400 Islamic State fighters crossed the Euphrates River and ambushed the town, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group, killed 11 pro-government fighters in clashes, and losing five of their own.From their desert territory the IS militants have harassed forces at oil stations, as well, according to Mohammad al-Ayed, director of the Palmyra News Network.U.S. and Kurdish officers had warned of an IS resurgence when Turkey attacked the town of Afrin in northwestern Syria in March to drive out the main Kurdish militia, known as the YPG.The YPG forms the backbone of the Syrian Democratic Forces, America's main partner in Syria, which then shifted hundreds of fighters from operations against IS in eastern Syria to the front lines against Turkey in Afrin.That forced a pause in operations against the main IS holdout in Syria. The U.S.-led coalition has cut its airstrikes against IS by half since the Kurdish-led fighters moved away from eastern Syria, said coalition spokesman Col. Ryan Dillon.The U.S. relies on ground maneuvers by the Syrian Democratic Forces to flush out IS fighters and expose them to airstrikes, Dillon said. "If the SDF are not constantly putting pressure on ISIS elements, that allows them to quietly reconsolidate," he added, using an alternate acronym for the Islamic State group.Meanwhile, with the Syrian government focused on vanquishing the rebels in their stronghold of eastern Ghouta, near Damascus, IS militants surged from a pocket of territory they hold on the southern edge of the capital to snatch a neighborhood right from under the government's nose.Some 120 pro-government fighters were killed in the battle of Qadam, according to the Observatory, losses that went unmentioned in state media. Other clashes between the two sides brought the government forces' death toll to 204 in 23 days, the Observatory said.IS has lost almost all the territory it once controlled in Syria and Iraq, land that had encompassed a third of those countries. But the pockets it still holds provide protection.IS fighters have excellent knowledge of the desert areas along the Syria-Iraq border, dating back to the early days of the Islamic State group and even before, when the group was called al-Qaida in Iraq, said Jalal al-Hamad, a Europe- based Syrian activist who monitors the war with an organization called Justice for Life.IS has extensive tunnels there and can move relatively undetected, avoiding Syrian and Russian airstrikes, al-Hamad said, though American planes can detect them. The militants use bad weather, particularly dust storms, to cross the Euphrates, he said.The Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces control about 25 percent of Syria, and the Kurds are hoping to emerge from the conflict with a degree of self-rule in their territory.But they fear that an American withdrawal will leave them unable to hold on to much of that. It would allow Turkey, which succeeded in capturing Afrin, to carry out its threat to attack Manbij and try to take other Kurdish-held territory along the Syrian-Turkish border.It would also, they warn, cede the east completely to Damascus' allies Russia and Iran, which have set up a series of bases in the country during seven years of war.Ilham Ahmed, a senior Kurdish official in Syria's Raqqa province, said an American pullout would open the way for "total chaos in Syria."Trump appears to be unconcerned with such potential consequences, dramatically scaling back U.S. goals in Syria amid disagreements with his aides and national security team."As far as Syria is concerned, our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS," Trump said. "We've completed that task."The uncertainty puts U.S. officials in Syria in a difficult position, particularly vis-a-vis their local partners.Dillon, the coalition spokesman, said he would not speculate on anything that's going to happen in the future."We're going to keep doing what we're doing until we're told otherwise," he said.___Issa reported from Beirut. Associated Press writer Josh Lederman in Washington contributed to this report.
ANKARA —  Turkey, Iran and Russia pledged on Wednesday to accelerate efforts to bring stability to Syria, underlining their joint commitment to the country a day after President Donald Trump raised the prospect of withdrawing U.S. troops.A statement by the three countries after a summit meeting of their leaders in the Turkish capital Ankara said they were determined to "speed up their efforts to ensure calm on the ground" in Syria.While their decision to work together has done little to reduce violence, in part because of their own military interventions on opposing sides, it underlined their central role just as questions grow over Washington's presence in Syria.A senior U.S. official said Trump wanted U.S. forces out of Syria relatively soon. "We're not going to immediately withdraw but neither is the president willing to back a long-term commitment," the official said.Around 2,000 U.S. troops are deployed in northern Syria on a mission to battle the remnants of an Islamic State force that once controlled the area. Trump had said on Tuesday it was time to pull them out.Iran's President Hassan Rouhani said developments in Syria, where the Syrian army and its allies have driven back rebels in recent years, showed that the United States had "failed to topple the Syrian government" of President Bashar al-Assad."They wanted to fuel insecurity in order to maintain their own interests but they have gained no success," he told a news conference after talks with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin. He added, however, that he believed U.S. forces would stay in Syria.RIFTS CONTINUEIran and Russia have both strongly supported the Syrian president, while Turkey backed anti-Assad rebels. Those differences have continued on the ground despite their political cooperation aimed at winding down some of the violence.Turkey has waged a military campaign to drive Kurdish YPG fighters from northwestern Syria's Afrin district, while Russian air power and Iran-backed militias have supported Syrian army offensives in the Idlib and Ghouta regions.Iran's state television quoted Rouhani as telling Erdogan and Putin that Afrin should be handed over to Syria's army."The developments in Afrin can only be useful if they do not violate Syria's territorial integrity, and control of these areas should be handed over to the Syrian army," Rouhani said.Erdogan has said the Turkish army will extend its military operation after Afrin to the town of Tel Rifaat and then further east along Syria's border with Turkey - a prospect which has angered Tehran."Whatever the intentions are, Turkey's moves in Syria, whether in Afrin, Tel Rifaat or any other part of Syria, should be halted as soon as possible," a senior Iranian official told Reuters before Wednesday's talks.Seated alongside Putin and Rouhani, Erdogan focussed on areas of common ground, saying that Turkey wanted to build a mobile hospital to help treat civilians coming from formerly rebel-controlled parts of eastern Ghouta, on the edge of Damascus, which the Syrian army has taken over.Rebel fighters and civilians who were evacuated from eastern Ghouta have been taken to the northwestern Syrian province of Idlib, which borders Turkey.Erdogan proposed providing a bakery to help feed refugees and build housing on both sides of the border."We can save these people from tents and container cities by building housing. We can, all together, make that zone safe," Erdogan said.(Additional reporting by Denis Pinchuk, Ece Toksabay and Tuvan Gumrukcu; Writing by Dominic Evans; Editing by Catherine Evans and Richard Balmforth)
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don't call it a "timeline."Wary of charges of hypocrisy for publicly telegraphing military strategy after criticizing former President Barack Obama for the same thing, the White House has ordered Trump's national security team not to speak of a "timeline" for withdrawal. That's even after Trump made it clear to his top aides this week that he wants the pullout completed within five or six months.It wasn't the result top national security aides wanted. Trump's desire for a rapid withdrawal faced unanimous opposition from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Pentagon, the State Department and the intelligence community, all of which argued that keeping the 2,000 U.S. soldiers currently in Syria is key to ensuring the Islamic State does not reconstitute itself.But as they huddled in the Situation Room, the president was vocal and vehement in insisting that the withdrawal be completed quickly if not immediately, according to five administration officials briefed on Tuesday's White House meeting of Trump and his top aides. The officials weren't authorized to discuss internal deliberations and requested anonymity.If those aides failed in obtaining their desired outcome, it may have been because a strategy that's worked in the past — giving Trump an offer he can't refuse — appears to have backfired.Rather than offer Trump a menu of pullout plans, with varying timelines and options for withdrawing step-by-step, the team sought to frame it as a binary choice: Stay in Syria to ensure the Islamic State can't regroup, or pull out completely. Documents presented to the president included several pages of possibilities for staying in, but only a brief description of an option for full withdrawal that emphasized significant risks and downsides, including the likelihood that Iran and Russia would take advantage of a U.S. vacuum.Ultimately, Trump chose that option anyway.The president had opened the meeting with a tirade about U.S. intervention in Syria and the Middle East more broadly, repeating lines from public speeches in which he's denounced previous administrations for "wasting" $7 trillion in the region over the past 17 years.What has the U.S. gotten for the money and American lives expended in Syria? "Nothing," Trump said over and over, according to the officials.The intensity of Trump's tone and demeanor raised eyebrows and unease among the top brass gathered to hash out a Syria plan with Trump, officials said: Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense Secretary James Mattis, CIA chief Mike Pompeo and acting Secretary of State John Sullivan.At one point, Dunford spoke up, one official said, telling Trump that his approach was not productive and asked him to give the group specific instructions as to what he wanted.Trump's response was to demand an immediate withdrawal of all American troops and an end to all U.S. civilian stabilization programs designed to restore basic infrastructure to war-shattered Syrian communities.Mattis countered, arguing that an immediate withdrawal could be catastrophic and was logistically impossible to pull off in any responsible way, without risking the return of the Islamic State and other terrorist groups in newly liberated territories, the officials said. Mattis floated a one-year withdrawal as an alternative.Trump then relented — but only slightly, telling his aides they could have five or six months to complete the mission to destroy the Islamic State and then get out, according to the officials. Trump also indicated that he did not want to hear in October that the military had been unable to fully defeat the Islamic State and had to remain in Syria for longer.The president had spoken. But what to say about it publicly?In a brief and vague statement released the day after the meeting, the White House said the U.S. role in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" and emphasized that the U.S. was counting on other countries and the U.N. to deal with Syria's future. But it offered no specificity as to the timing of a U.S. withdrawal."The president has actually been very good in not giving us a specific timeline," Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, said Thursday. "We've always thought that as we reach finale against ISIS in Syria, we're going to adjust the level of our presence there. So in that sense, nothing has actually changed."Pentagon officials stressed that no formal order had been handed down to the military to alter course or start a withdrawal. Nonetheless, the officials said Trump was clear in his intent.For Trump, any notion of a "timeline" comes with significant political risk. After all, he had regularly bashed Obama on the campaign trail for forecasting his military moves in advance. In fact, Trump was so critical of Obama for putting an arbitrary deadline on the 2011 Iraq withdrawal that he dubbed Obama "the founder of ISIS," arguing that Obama had signaled to al-Qaida sympathizers in Iraq that they need only wait the U.S. out.And Trump's whole strategy for dealing with Afghanistan, for example, is based on the idea that the U.S. presence should be "conditions-based" and not time-based."I'm not like other administrations, where they say we're going to do this in four weeks and that. It doesn't work that way," Trump said last year, shortly after becoming president.___This story corrects attribution of Thursday quote in paragraph 17 to Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, not Gen. Joseph Dunford.___Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.___

WASHINGTON —  U.S. military policy toward fighting Islamic State militants in Syria remains the same following discussions with President Donald Trump this week, and the military has not been given a timeline for withdrawing troops, the Pentagon said on Thursday.Trump agreed in a National Security Council meeting this week to keep U.S. troops in Syria a little longer to defeat Islamic State but wants them out relatively soon, a senior administration official said on Wednesday.Trump wants to ensure Islamic State militants are defeated but wants other countries in the region and the United Nations to step up and help provide stability in Syria, the official said.Trump had signaled his desire to get U.S. forces out of Syria in a speech last week, and officials said he had privately been pressing for an early withdrawal in talks with his national security aides."We've always thought that as we reach finality against ISIS in Syria we're going to adjust the level of our presence there, so in that sense nothing actually has changed," Marine Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, told a Pentagon briefing.McKenzie said Trump has not given the U.S. military any timeline."... one of the things that we haven't been given is a timeline and that is actually very effective ... (The) president has actually been very good in not giving us a specific timeline," McKenzie said.The United States is conducting air strikes in Syria and has deployed about 2,000 troops on the ground, including special operations forces whose advice has helped Kurdish militia and other U.S.-backed fighters capture territory from Islamic State, also known as ISIS.The Pentagon and State Department have said a longer-term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State's defeat is a lasting one.The militant group is widely expected to revert to guerrilla tactics once the last remnants of its once self-styled "caliphate" are captured by U.S.-backed forces.When asked whether the Pentagon would assist in stabilizing efforts, Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said: "Our mission is a military mission, but we will always support and provide the conditions necessary for our diplomats to be successful."(Reporting by Idrees Ali and David Alexander; Editing by Alistair Bell and James Dalgleish)
This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.Virginia is the clearest example of a state that has moved to the left politically. After decades as a Republican stronghold, it has voted Democratic in every top-tier statewide race — president, senator, governor — since 2010.But as well-known as Virginia’s transformation may be, one major cause of it hasn’t received much attention: Asian-American voters. Their numbers have boomed in recent years. Their voter turnout has also risen. And the radicalization of the Republican Party, especially on cultural and racial issues, has sent Asian-Americans voters fleeing to the Democrats.In a new piece for Washington Monthly, Saahil Desai suggests that Virginia can serve as a model for Democrats nationwide. “Democrats’ failure to mobilize” Asian-Americans, Desai writes, “has been a major missed opportunity.” Outside of Virginia, many other swing states and House districts — in California, Nevada, Arizona, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida and elsewhere — have meaningful Asian-American populations.In the last midterm election, in 2014, the nationwide turnout for Asian-American citizens was dreadful — just 27 percent, according to the census. That’s far below the rates for whites and blacks and virtually identical to the Latino rate. In Virginia, however, turnout has been significantly higher — the highest Asian-American turnout in the nation, Desai writes — thanks to a deliberate strategy that has included:· Creating Democratic Asian Americans of Virginia (or DAAV), a group dedicated to raising turnout.· Publishing sample ballots and voting guides in other languages and distributing them before elections.· Recruiting volunteers who speak Asian languages to make phone calls and go door to door.· Doing some of the basic political outreach that for too long has skipped over Asian-Americans. (Last year, for example, DAAV threw a celebration of Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights, for now-Gov. Ralph Northam to lead.)· Talking about the many issues — like immigration policy, education funding and social services — in which the opinions of most Asian-Americans align with Democratic positions.For more on this topic, you can read: my recent columns on the problem of low progressive turnout; Karthick Ramakrishnan’s American Prospect piece, “How Asian Americans Became Democrats”; and Pew’s extensive 2013 report, which breaks down the attitudes of different groups of Asian-Americans.Pew’s report helps highlight the size of the opportunity for Democrats. The six biggest Asian-American groups — which, in descending order, are Chinese-, Filipino-, Indian-, Vietnamese-, Korean- and Japanese-Americans — have varying opinions on nearly every major political issue (as these charts show). Yet not one of these subgroups leans Republican.And remember that the Pew report was done in 2013. Since then, the Republican Party has become even more radical and racialized, and, as Desai writes, Asian-Americans have become even more Democratic. But he also warns that Democrats shouldn’t take their loyalty for granted. On some issues — like affirmative action, which is in the news again today — Republicans have an opening.The Syria mess. The president says he wants to withdraw troops from Syria “very soon.” His senior foreign-policy advisers think American forces should stay longer to fight ISIS. The contradictions suggest “either a Commander in Chief completely disconnected from his own policy, or a policy completely disconnected from the Commander in Chief,” the Center for American Progress’s Kelly Magsamen tweeted recently. “Imagine what our troops on the ground are thinking.”
PARIS —  Turkey warned France on Thursday that it needed to choose who it wanted as an ally to fight Islamic State in Syria, and urged it to do what is necessary to ensure Kurdish militias leave the northern Manbij region.Relations between Ankara and Paris have been tense in recent weeks, with France increasingly criticising the two-month-old Turkish military operation against the Kurdish YPG in northern Syria, which Turkey considers a terrorist organisationThat came to a head on March 30 after President Emmanuel Macron met a Syrian delegation including the YPG and its political arm, the PYD, and gave assurances of French support to help them stabilise northern Syria against Islamic State."Our allies will need to make a choice in favour of Turkey in the fight against Islamic State and not the PYD/YPG," Turkish European Affairs Minister, Omer Celik, told Reuters in an interview after meeting French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian."I wanted to underline that we are expecting that France does nothing to encourage or support the YPG/PYD."He dismissed any suggestion of France playing a mediating role between the two sides, saying that Paris needed to understand that the Kurdish Syrian groups were no different to the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has waged a decades-long insurgency against the state within Turkey."I said that any help offered to the PYD/YPG would be deemed  help for terrorism," Celik said.France, like the United States, has already extended arms and training to the YPG-led militia in the fight against Islamic State, and has dozens of special forces members based in the region, which has infuriated Turkey.A PYD member in Paris said last week that Macron had promised to send more troops to northern Syria, provide humanitarian assistance and push for a diplomatic solution.The French presidency did not confirm that Macron had pledged more troops, but a presidential source said France could bolster its military intervention in Syria "within the existing framework" of the U.S.-led coalition.RISKFrance's foreign ministry said in a statement it remained concerned by Turkish military operations in the Afrin region.The minister "stressed that our common priority must remain the total eradication of Daesh (Islamic State)," foreign ministry spokesman Agnes Von der Muhll said.Turkey, which stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin last month, has repeatedly threatened to push its operations further east to Manbij, where U.S. troops are stationed.Expanding Turkey's military campaign into the much larger Kurdish-held territory further east, which President Tayyip Erdogan has vowed to do, would risk confrontation between NATO allies, who have been at loggerheads over the U.S. policy in Syria and other issues.Celik said he had told Le Drian that trying to put the YPG/PYD under a new banner or uniforms would not change the problem and that Turkey wanted the groups cleared from Manbij."We want these terrorist organisations removed from proximity to our borders. That is our priority and if their presence continues then we will intervene," he said."Our allies who tell us not to intervene in Manbij must do what is necessary so that these terrorist organisations leave," he said.Celik also said he had asked France and the European Union to help build homes in areas taken by Turkish troops to allow some refugees to return from Turkey.(Reporting by John Irish; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
