WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon," while at odds with his own policy, was not a one-off: For weeks, top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has increasingly told them privately he wants out, U.S. officials said.Only two months ago, Trump's aides thought they'd persuaded him that the U.S. needed to keep its presence in Syria open-ended — not only because the Islamic State group has yet to be entirely defeated, but also because the resulting power vacuum could be filled by other extremist groups or by Iran. Trump signed off on major speech in January in which Secretary of State Rex Tillerson laid out the new strategy and declared "it is vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria."But by mid-February, Trump was telling his top aides in meetings that as soon as victory can be declared against IS, he wanted American troops out of Syria, said the officials. Alarm bells went off at the State Department and the Pentagon, where officials have been planning for a gradual, methodical shift from a military-led operation to a diplomatic mission to start rebuilding basic infrastructure like roads and sewers in the war-wracked country.In one sign that Trump is serious about reversing course and withdrawing from Syria, the White House this week put on hold some $200 million in US funding for stabilization projects in Syria, officials said. The money, to have been spent by the State Department for infrastructure projects like power, water and roads, had been announced by outgoing Secretary  of State Rex Tillerson at an aid conference last month in Kuwait.The officials said the hold, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, is not necessarily permanent and will be discussed at senior-level inter-agency meetings next week.The officials weren't authorized to comment publicly and demanded anonymity.The State Department said it continually reviews appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized. And the agency said it continues to work with the international community, members of the Coalition, and our partners on the ground to provide much needed stabilization support to vulnerable areas in Syria."The United States is working everyday on the ground and with the international community to help stabilize those areas liberated from ISIS and identify ways to move forward with reconstruction once there has been a peaceful political transition away from (Syrian President Bashar) Assad," according to a statement from the State Department.Trump's first public suggestion he was itching to pull out came in a news conference with visiting Australian Prime Minister Alastair Campbell on Feb. 23, when Trump said the U.S. was in Syria to "get rid of ISIS and go home." On Thursday, in a domestic policy speech in Ohio, Trump went further."We'll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon — very soon, we're coming out," Trump said.The public declaration caught U.S. national security agencies off-guard and unsure whether Trump was formally announcing a new, unexpected change in policy. Inundated by inquiries from journalists and foreign officials, the Pentagon and State Department reached out to the White House's National Security Council for clarification.The White House's ambiguous response, officials said: Trump's words speak for themselves."The mission of the Department of Defense to defeat ISIS has not changed," said Maj. Adrian Rankine-Galloway, a Pentagon spokesman.Still, without a clear directive from the president, planning has not started for a withdrawal from Syria, officials said, and Trump has not advocated a specific timetable.For Trump, who campaigned on an "America First" mantra, Syria is just the latest foreign arena where his impulse has been to limit the U.S. role. Like with NATO and the United Nations, Trump has called for other governments to step up and share more of the burden so that Washington doesn't foot the bill. His administration has been crisscrossing the globe seeking financial commitments from other countries to fund reconstruction in both Syria and Iraq, but with only limited success.Yet it's unclear how Trump's impulse to pull out could be affected by recent staff shake-ups on his national security team. Tillerson and former national security adviser H.R. McMaster, both advocates for keeping a U.S. presence in Syria, were recently fired, creating questions about the longevity of the plan Tillerson announced in his Stanford University speech in January. But Trump also replaced McMaster with John Bolton, a vocal advocate for U.S. intervention and aggressive use of the military overseas.The abrupt change in the president's thinking has drawn concern both inside and outside the United States.Other nations that make up the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS fear that Trump's impulse to pull out hastily would allow the notoriously resourceful IS militants to regroup, several European diplomats said. That concern has been heightened by the fact that U.S.-backed ground operations against remaining IS militants in Syria were put on hold earlier this month.The ground operations had to be paused because Kurdish fighters who had been spearheading the campaign against IS shifted to a separate fight with Turkish forces, who began combat operations in the town of Afrin against Kurds who are considered by Ankara to be terrorists that threaten Turkey's security."This is a serious and growing concern," State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said this month.Beyond just defeating IS, there are other strategic U.S. objectives that could be jeopardized by a hasty withdrawal, officials said, chiefly those related to Russia and Iran.Israel, America's closest Mideast ally, and other regional nations like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are deeply concerned about the influence of Iran and its allies, including the Shiite militant group Hezbollah, inside Syria. The U.S. military presence in Syria has been seen as a buffer against unchecked Iranian activity, and especially against Tehran's desire to establish a contiguous land route from Iran to the Mediterranean coast in Lebanon.An American withdrawal would also likely cede Syria to Russia, which along with Iran has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad's forces and would surely fill the void left behind by the U.S. That prospect has alarmed countries like France, which has historic ties to the Levant.In calling for a withdrawal "very soon," Trump may be overly optimistic in his assessment of how quickly the anti-IS campaign can be wrapped up, the officials said. Although the group has been driven from basically all of the territory it once controlled in Iraq and 95 percent of its former territory in Syria, the remaining five percent is becoming increasingly difficult to clear and could take many months, the officials said.___Associated Press writers Robert Burns and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.
LONDON —  A British soldier killed by a roadside bomb in Syria was named as Sergeant Matt Tonroe of the Parachute Regiment, Britain's defense ministry said.He was the first British soldier to be killed in Syria fighting Islamic State militants."Tonroe, from the 3st Battalion of the Parachute Regiment, was tragically killed in action whilst on duty in the Middle East on the 29th March 2018," the ministry said in a statement.The 33-year-old had been attached to U.S. forces in an operation against Islamic State. A U.S. soldier was killed alongside him by the improvised bomb.(Reporting by Elisabeth O'Leary, Editing by Angus MacSwan)
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday froze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria as his administration reassesses Washington's role in the long-drawn conflict there, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing officials.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report noting that Washington had recently committed an additional $200 million to support early recovery efforts in Syria, the Journal reported.The decision is in line with Trump's declaration on Thursday when he said that America would exit Syria, according to officials, the Journal reported.An additional aid of $200 million was pledged by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February in Kuwait at a meeting of the global coalition against Islamic State.(Reporting by Bhanu Pratap in Bengaluru; Editing by Sandra Maler)
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. —  President Donald Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria, two senior administration officials said on Friday, a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.A National Security Council meeting is set for early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria, according to U.S. officials familiar with the plan.Two other administration officials confirmed a Wall Street Journal report on Friday that said Trump had ordered the State Department to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria while his administration reassesses Washington's role in the conflict there.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report that the U.S. had recently committed an additional $200 million to stabilise areas recaptured from Islamic State, the paper said.The funding was announced by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February at a meeting in Kuwait of the global coalition against Islamic State.The decision to freeze the funds was in line with Trump's declaration during a speech in Richfield, Ohio, on Thursday, where he said it was time for America to exit Syria.A spokesperson for the White House's National Security Council said that "in line with the President's guidance, the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized, which they do on an ongoing basis."Trump is spending Easter weekend at his Palm Beach, Florida, estate."We'll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon," Trump said on Thursday, based on allied victories against Islamic State militants."Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon, very soon, we're coming out," Trump said. "We're going to get back to our country, where we belong, where we want to be."Trump's comments came as France said on Friday it could increase its military presence in Syria to bolster the U.S.-led campaign.While the Pentagon has estimated that Islamic State has lost about 98 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and Syria, U.S. military officials have warned that the militants could regain the freed areas quickly unless they are stabilized.Trump still needs to be convinced of that, said the U.S. officials with knowledge of the NSC meeting.U.S. DELIBERATIONSThe two administration officials who confirmed the Wall Street Journal report and spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said Trump's comments on Thursday reflected internal deliberations with advisers in which he has wondered aloud why U.S. forces should remain with the militants on their heels.Trump has made clear that "once ISIS and its remnants are destroyed that the United States would be looking towards having countries in the region playing a larger role in ensuring security and leaving it at that," one official said.Such a policy is nowhere near complete, however, the official added.The second official said Trump's national security advisers have told him U.S. forces should stay in small numbers for at least a couple of years to make sure gains against the militants are held and ensure Syria does not essentially become a permanent Iranian base.Top national security aides discussed Syria in a White House meeting recently but have yet to settle on a strategy for U.S. forces in Syria to recommend to Trump going forward, the official said."So far he has not given an order to just get out," the official said. About 2,000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Trump last year went through a similar wrenching debate over whether to withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan, ultimately agreeing to keep them there but only after repeatedly raising questions of why they should stay.Trump's view on Syria may put him at odds with those of former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton, named by Trump a week ago to replace H.R. McMaster as White House national security adviser.(Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton, John Walcott and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Editing by David Gregorio,  Susan Thomas and Tom Hogue)
WASHINGTON —  The American service member killed this week by a roadside bomb in northern Syria was a 36-year-old Army soldier from Texas, the Defense Department said Saturday.Master Sgt. Jonathan J. Dunbar, of Austin, died Friday as a result of injuries suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his patrol in Manbij — not far from the border with Turkey — during an operation against the Islamic State group, officials said.A British armed forces member also was killed and five other people were wounded in Thursday's bombing— a rare attack since the U.S.-led coalition sent troops into the country."Coalition forces, in an advise, assist and accompany capacity with our partners, were conducting a mission to kill or capture a known (IS) member when they were struck by an improvised explosive device," the U.S.-led coalition said Saturday in a statement to The Associated Press.Dunbar was assigned to the headquarters of the U.S. Army Special Operations Command in Fort Bragg, North Carolina.Manbij, a mixed Arab-Kurdish town, is under threat of a Turkish military operation. Ankara says the town is controlled by Syrian Kurdish militiamen that Turkish officials claim are "terrorists" and an extension of Kurdish insurgents inside Turkey.In recent weeks, Manbij has seen an assassination attempt against a senior Kurdish official on the highway outside the town and a number of small explosions. Authorities imposed a curfew after 11 p.m., and in recent days barred motorcycles from moving around the town after sunset.Dunbar is the fourth American service member to die in Syria since the U.S. began attacking Islamic State group militants there in September 2014, according to the Pentagon's Defense Casualty Analysis System.The others were Air Force Staff Sgt. Austin Bieren, whose death was specifically labeled by the Pentagon as noncombat related; Navy Senior Chief Petty Officer Scott C. Dayton, who was killed by an improved explosive device; and Army Spc. Etienne J. Murphy, who died in a vehicle rollover.___Associated Press writer Sarah El Deeb contributed to this report from Manbij, Syria.___This story has been corrected to show that Dunbar's first name is Jonathan, not Johnathan, per new information from the Department of Defense.
AMMAN —  Negotiators in the last rebel-held bastion in Syria's eastern Ghouta reached a deal on Saturday with the Russian side to evacuate the wounded from Douma to rebel-held northern Syria, local sources familiar with the deal said.The agreement was reached by the negotiating committee that comprises both civic leaders and representatives of Jaish al Islam, the rebel faction in control of Douma, the sources said.The committee has been negotiating a deal to spare the city a military assault by the Syrian army and its allies who encircle it. They have threatened to storm the city if rebels do not agree to surrender the last patch in the enclave in return for safe passage to insurgent-held territory in northwestern Syria.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; Editing by Sandra Maler)
AMMAN —  Negotiators in the last rebel-held bastion in Syria's eastern Ghouta reached a deal on Saturday with the Russian side to evacuate the wounded from Douma to rebel-held northern Syria, local sources familiar with the deal said.The agreement was reached by the negotiating committee that comprises both civic leaders and representatives of Jaish al Islam, the rebel faction in control of Douma, the sources said.The committee has been negotiating a deal to spare the city a military assault by the Syrian army and its allies who encircle it. They have threatened to storm the city if rebels do not agree to surrender the last patch in the enclave in return for safe passage to insurgent-held territory in northwestern Syria.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; Editing by Sandra Maler)
BEIRUT, Lebanon — When pro-government forces retook her hometown from Syrian rebels, Nisrine accepted the same surrender deal the government has offered tens of thousands of Syrians: a one-way bus trip to a place she had never been — the northern, rebel-held province of Idlib.Since Syria’s war began, the population of Idlib has doubled as it has taken in a motley mix of fleeing civilians, defeated rebels, hard-line jihadists and those like Nisrine who have packed up their families to ride the government surrender bus.But as government forces wrap up a blistering campaign in eastern Ghouta, Idlib is likely to be the next target. And this time, there will be nowhere else to run.“Maybe this is the last chapter of the revolution,” Nisrine, 36, an Arabic teacher from the onetime tourist resort of Madaya, said in an online interview recently. “Syrians are killing Syrians. Nothing matters anymore. We decided to die standing up. I’m sad for the revolution, how it’s gone, how people called for freedom and now it’s gone.”Idlib, a small, conservative province on the Turkish border, is Syria’s largest remaining rebel-held area. One of the earliest regions to revolt against President Bashar al-Assad, it may be the place where the revolution that began more than seven years ago finally ends.The government has carried out scorched-earth airstrikes there with its ally, Russia, routinely hitting hospitals and clinics, schools and neighborhood markets.But people are still coming.In recent days, more than 10,000 fighters and civilians have been bused to Idlib from surrendering sections of eastern Ghouta. They arrive traumatized, exhausted and disillusioned, often with children suffering from malnutrition after years of siege.The government has treated the province as a dumping ground for those it does not want in its territory, and paints the province as a nest of jihadists. But the vast majority in Idlib are civilians, including nonviolent activists who could face arrest and torture if they remained in government areas and who often push back against hard-liners in the province they believe have co-opted the revolt.Marwan Habaq, who survived the barrages in eastern Ghouta in a basement with his wife and infant daughter Yasmina, is taking them to Idlib. It is a tough choice because, as they have no place to live in Idlib, they will have to leave his wife’s parents behind and they will face more shelling. But if they stay, he is sure he will be arrested or forced into military service.“Two bitter options,” he said. “Leaving to the unknown, or staying within Assad’s hands.”But the move only delays the inevitable.“It’s a shame on the world,” said Mehran Ouyoun, a member of the opposition council in exile for the Damascus suburbs, which meets in Turkey. “If you approve the war crime of forced evacuation, at least make sure these people don’t suffer again and again.”Idlib was once controlled by a patchwork of clashing insurgents, some led by American-backed army defectors calling for a civil state. Others, including an Al Qaeda affiliate, welcomed foreign fighters and espoused a spectrum of Islamist ideologies. But hard-liners have seized the upper hand, playing into the government’s portrayal of the region even as they create tensions with residents who oppose them.As they struggle to survive, many residents are caught between government attacks from the sky and the overbearing rule of extremist factions that dominate on the ground.Nisrine joined the revolution at the outset in 2011, pushing for a secular, civil democracy. Like a dozen other Idlib residents interviewed for this article by phone and email, she asked not to be fully identified for fear of retribution from any side.She boarded a bus for Idlib last year after surviving a year of siege and bombardment, hoping that her son Abdullah, 10, would not starve to death like some children had in her town, Madaya. At first, she was excited to be reunited with her husband, a former law student and rebel fighter who had gone to Idlib two years earlier.She did not regret leaving Madaya. After the government takeover there, her brother and brothers-in-law were drafted and sent to the front with minimal training. They died in battle.But Nisrine was troubled by Idlib City’s ubiquitous jihadist billboards, face veils and cafes segregating women and banning them from smoking water pipes. When she wears her usual head scarf and modest coat, religious enforcers lecture her for not veiling her face.One ultrareligious neighbor spoke constantly of fighting Shiites, never about building a new country. Eventually Nisrine lost her temper.“Why did you climb on the revolution’s back?” she recalled asking the woman. “I didn’t join the revolution to see this.”Her husband, who had been a rebel fighter back in Madaya, also struggled to find a way to keep fighting for a cause he believed in. After briefly joining two of Idlib’s main Islamist factions, he quit to become a paralegal.“They considered me an infidel,” he said of the factions, “and I considered them extremists.”But the episode that shocked Nisrine most was the day her son, after a few months playing with other children in Idlib, announced: “I want to join the jihad.”Horrified, Nisrine decided to set up educational alternatives and start campaigning quietly against the recruitment of children into hard-line religious schools and rebel factions.She also helped open a chapter of an organization that provides psychological support and cultural activities.Umm Abdo, 36, a philosophy professor from Syria’s largest city, Aleppo, takes a more confrontational approach. She fled to Idlib in 2014 for fear she would be arrested after government forces detained her husband.“I don’t stay silent,” she said. “I’m not afraid of death. Welcome, death!”She said she does not leave home without a gun.She could not find work in Idlib’s university; Philosophy had been banned as “polytheism.” So she became a traditional healer, treating mostly women, and found that their already limited freedoms had contracted further under the hard-liners who control Idlib.She heard from students brainwashed into calling their parents infidels, teenage girls sold into marriage. One woman arrived unable to speak. It turned out her husband had badly beaten her after she caught him cheating.With a degree in Islamic law, she started defending underdogs in Islamic court. She helped farmers defeat attempts by the factions to take away their lands. She won a divorce for a woman whose father had sold her to a foreign fighter who raped and beat her.“When we decided to revolt, it was against oppression,” she said. “But today we’re facing the worst oppression.”Life in conservative Idlib poses challenges for everyone from relatively cosmopolitan Damascus, but especially for single women.Rima, a former political prisoner from Madaya, arrived in Idlib divorced with no local family ties or male relatives to protect her. Few landlords would rent to a single woman and one evicted her when she refused his advances.“Even taxi drivers ask: ‘Why are you single? Why don’t you have brothers?’” she said.Recently local authorities in Idlib City announced single women would have to live in special camps.For Rima, the problem was solved when she got engaged. The catch: Her fiancé wants her to veil her face.“I will,” she said, “not because I’m convinced, but because I love him.”Fitting in remains a challenge, but there are few options.“Idlib wasn’t the best choice,” she said. “It was the only choice.”
BEIRUT —  An Israeli drone crashed in southern Lebanon overnight between Friday and Saturday, the Israeli military and Hezbollah's al-Manar TV reported."An unmanned Israeli spy plane crashes between the villages of Beit Yahoun and Baraachit," al-Manar reported.A statement from the Israeli military said the drone had crashed because of a technical malfunction. "The incident is currently being reviewed. There is no risk of leaked information,” the statement said.Israel and Lebanon's Hezbollah last fought a war in 2006. Israeli and U.S. officials say Iran is helping the group build factories to manufacture precision-guided missiles or refit its longer-range missiles with precision guidance systems.The heavily armed Hezbollah joined the Syrian civil war in support of Assad in 2012, and has played a critical part in helping his government defeat Sunni rebels backed by the United States and its regional allies - Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey.Hezbollah has spearheaded a coalition of Tehran-backed Shi'ite militias that have deployed to Syria from Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Iran's expanding power in Syria has caused deep alarm in neighboring Israel.Israel has mounted numerous air strikes in Syria against what it has described as Hezbollah and Iranian targets.Sheikh Naim Qassem, the deputy leader of the Iran-backed Shi’ite group, told Reuters in an interview on March 15 that Hezbollah does not expect Israel to launch a war for now in Lebanon but that it is prepared for one.(Writing by Tom Perry and Maayan Lubell; Editing by Catherine Evans)
KOBANI, Syria — Two British detainees in Syria who are accused of being part of a murderous Islamic State cell denounced the United States and Britain as “hypocrites” and complained they would not get fair trials because they were reportedly stripped of their citizenship.The men, El Shafee Elsheikh and Alexanda Kotey, were part of a group with two other British jihadis that was nicknamed “the Beatles” by captives because of their English accents, officials say.The two were captured by Syrian Kurdish fighters in January in eastern Syria as Islamic State forces were routed and are being held in an undisclosed location, but they were taken to a Kurdish security center in the town of Kobani, where they spoke to The Associated Press.They refused to address accusations that in 2014 and 2015 they were part of the cell that officials said held more than 20 Western hostages in Syria and tortured many of them, including the American journalist James Foley.They are accused of beheading seven American, British and Japanese journalists and aid workers and a group of Syrian soldiers, and boasting of the butchery in videos released around the globe. The two said the killings of the captives were a mistake — but for tactical reasons.Many in the Islamic State, known as ISIS, “would have disagreed” with the killings “on the grounds that there is probably more benefit in them being political prisoners,” Mr. Kotey said.“It was something that was regrettable,” he said. He also blamed Western governments for failing to negotiate, noting that some hostages were released for ransoms.Mr. Elsheikh said the killings were a “mistake” and might not have been justified. But, he said, they were in retaliation for the killings of civilians by the United States-led coalition fighting ISIS.The beheadings, often videotaped, horrified the world soon after ISIS took over much of Iraq and Syria in 2014. The group also committed wide-scale atrocities, massacring thousands of Iraqi troops and civilians and taking sex slaves.Mr. Foley’s killing was followed by those of two other Americans, Steven Sotloff and Peter Kassig; the British aid workers David Cawthorne Haines and Alan Henning; and the Japanese journalists Haruna Yukawa and Kenji Goto.Mr. Foley’s mother, Diane Foley, called on the international community and United States government “to have the courage to hold these men accountable in an open trial where we can face them and they can hear all the pain and suffering they’ve inflicted on the world.”She said she opposed the death penalty for the detainees since it would feed jihadi “desire for martyrdom and heroic afterlife.”The two suspects’ detention has set off a debate in the United States and Europe about how to prosecute Westerners who joined the militants — as the Kurds pressure the West to take them back to relieve prison crowding.Mr. Elsheikh, whose family went to Britain from Sudan when he was a child, was a mechanic from White City in West London. He traveled to Syria in 2012, initially joining a branch of Al Qaeda before moving on to ISIS, according to the State Department. It said he had “earned a reputation for waterboarding, mock executions and crucifixions” while serving as an ISIS jailer.Mr. Kotey, who is of Ghanaian and Greek-Cypriot descent and converted to Islam in his 20s, is from the Paddington district of London.The leader of the cell, Mohammed Emwazi, was called “Jihadi John” after he appeared, masked in the videos, sometimes performing the butchery. He was killed in an American-led coalition drone strike in 2015 in the Syrian city of Raqqa. Another member, Aine Davis, was arrested in Turkey, convicted there in 2017 and sentenced to seven years in prison.The two detainees in Syria denounced as “illegal” the British government’s reported decision in February to strip them of citizenship. The revocation exposes them to “rendition and torture,” Mr. Elsheikh said.“I was born in the U.K.,” he said. “My mother was born in the U.K. I have a daughter there in the U.K.”Mr. Kotey said the fairest venue for a trial might be the International Criminal Court in The Hague. The citizenship decision was widely reported in the news media, though British officials have not confirmed or denied it, citing privacy rules.Both men seemed dismissive of the idea that they were part of the ISIS cell, depicting the allegations as created by media and foreign intelligence “so the world can say this is the bad guy and kill the bad guy,” Mr. Elsheikh said.He added: “No fair trial when I am ‘the Beatle’ in the media. No fair trial.”Bethany Haines, whose father, David Haines, was held hostage and died in Syria, told the BBC: “It shocks me that two individuals who have committed such heinous crimes have been treated like guests with access to the media and are allowed access to smartphones. As for them saying that their actions in Syria are regrettable is an understatement.”The men said they had been questioned repeatedly by American military officials and the F.B.I. The United States has been pressing for the home countries of foreign jihadis in Iraq and Syria to take their nationals for trial. Though Britain’s defense secretary has said they should not be allowed back into the country, officials had asked the United States for reassurance that the men would not face the death penalty.At the Kurdish security building, the men appeared to speak openly. Mr. Elsheikh was strait-laced and reserved, referring more often to Islamic texts. But Mr. Kotey often cracked jokes — when asked whether ISIS’ leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, was alive, he joked that some people thought that Elvis never died and that Tupac Shakur is still alive.They were unrepentant, however, about belonging to the group — though they said they did not agree with everything it did. Mr. Kotey said he did not think suicide bombings were permissible in Islam. Mr. Elsheikh said ISIS’ killing of a captured Jordanian pilot by burning him alive in a cage was “atrocious.”
