Jack Rosenthal, who died Wednesday evening at his home in Manhattan, occupied many important roles in a career at The New York Times that began in 1969 — urban affairs correspondent in Washington, editor of The New York Times Magazine and president of The Times Foundation. But some of the happiest and most productive times of his life were the 16 years he devoted to putting out this page, as deputy editorial page editor beginning in 1977 and as editor from 1986 to 1993.These were often turbulent times: captured hostages and roaring inflation under Jimmy Carter; “morning in America” for some, and budgetary austerity for others, under Ronald Reagan; and the end of the Cold War under the first President Bush. And at home, the near-collapse and gradual revival of New York City. The role of the editorial page, in Jack’s view, was to add the institutional voice of The Times to the national and local conversation on a wide range of issues, and to that end, with great humor and even greater patience, he encouraged a robust and often contentious staff of more than a dozen writers to produce lively and thoughtful pieces on their specialties for an audience of demanding readers — of which the most demanding was Jack himself.Jack loved words and their many uses. Having shared a desk with Jack in the Washington bureau during the Nixon days, I joined the editorial board in 1988 to write about politics and the presidency, but the piece that tickled him most was a little one about the third college edition of Webster’s New World Dictionary, which contained several thousand new words and phrases that the Webster editors thought had sufficient currency to merit inclusion: greenmail, junk bond, talking heads, hacker and Nixonian. All these were fine, Jack thought; though a purist in many respects, and a ferocious enemy of cliché and rhetorical overkill, he saw language as a living, growing organism.In 1982, Jack won a Pulitzer Prize for a diverse collection of editorials, some of which seem up-to-date even now. Writing at a time when the main immigration issue was the need for a consistent policy at the border, not the more complex question of how to deal with 11 million unauthorized people who are already here, he issued a prescient warning: “A million people are waiting in line to enter the United States legally; millions more are eager to jump the line; and the nation must choose which to let through the door. … The country is not now making the choice. The more the system spins out of control, the more Americans lose patience with government — and perhaps with any immigration at all.”He also had complaints about our business, not least journalism’s habit of what he called “rushing the future,” which in his view only spoiled it. “The year 1976 taught that lesson. Was there an American alive who, by the time the bicentennial actually arrived, was not already glassy-eyed from all the premature puffery?” Jack, never shy about raiding the culture for material, turned to an advertising slogan of the time for that editorial’s final line, “Sell no wine before its time.”