Feed your hacking fantasies with “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” — both versions. Investigate the lingering effect of childhood terror with “Primal Screen.” Or watch the Senate testimony of the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey.THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO (2011) on iTunes and Amazon. Daniel Craig stars as a crusading Swedish journalist hired by a wealthy industrialist (Christopher Plummer) to investigate the disappearance of his niece 40 years earlier. Rooney Mara, in an Oscar-nominated performance, is Lisbeth Salander, the vulnerable yet ruthlessly competent computer hacker who helps him solve the mystery in this adaptation of the Stieg Larsson novel, directed by David Fincher. “She is a marvelous pop-culture character, stranger and more complex than the average superhero and more intriguing than the usual boy wizards and vampire brides,” A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times about Lisbeth, first played by Noomi Rapace in a 2010 Swedish adaptation. Check out that version on Fandor.PRIMAL SCREEN on Shudder. This streaming site adds original content to its lineup with this horror documentary from Rodney Ascher, which explores how pop culture that traumatizes children can scar them for the rest of their lives.2017 BONNAROO MUSIC & ARTS FESTIVAL on Red Bull TV. The Red Hot Chili Peppers, Lorde, Flume, Marshmello, the Head and the Heart, the Preservation Hall Jazz Band and Big Gigantic are among the groups performing at this four-day event in Manchester, Tenn., streamed live on three Red Bull channels. The Thursday night lineup begins at 8:15 and includes Luke Combs, Hippo Campus, Mondo Cozmo, Goldfish, the Orwells, Welles, Innanet James, Haywyre and Eden.THE RANCH on Netflix. Ashton Kutcher plays Colt, a star high school quarterback turned semipro, who returns to his family’s struggling homestead. Danny Masterson, Mr. Kutcher’s co-star on “That ’70s Show,” is his brother, Rooster, who lives with their father, Beau (Sam Elliott), a tough-love cowboy type. With its broken dreams and hard times, this sitcom “takes characters normally written off or romanticized and treats them as full, flawed people,” James Poniewozik wrote in The Times. “The cowboy term for that would be ‘respect,’ and ‘The Ranch’ both gives and earns it.” Take a refresher before Season 3 starts on June 16.JAMES B. COMEY TESTIMONY 10 a.m. on ABC, CBS, CNN, C-Span3, MSNBC and NBC. Mr. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, testifies before the Senate Intelligence Committee.UNITED KINGDOM GENERAL ELECTION 7 p.m. on Fox Business. Lou Dobbs and Neil Cavuto provide live coverage.QUEEN OF THE SOUTH 10 p.m. on USA. Season 2 begins as Teresa strikes a deal with an eccentric smuggler and Camilla fights to rebuild her empire.AMERICAN BOYBAND 10:30 p.m. on Viceland. Follow Kevin Abstract as he sets off on his first headlining tour of North America.