Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York Times, review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry.Farhad: Hello, Mike! It’s the first week of our new schedule. Instead of getting this newsletter on Saturday mornings, our readers will now find it in their inboxes a day early. We wanted to get the jump on ruining people’s weekends.Mike: Ahoy, Farhad! Yes, I’m curious how this experiment goes. Normally, I enjoyed being the first thing people woke up to on a lazy Saturday, but perhaps folks want a nice overview of the week they had and what they may have missed while still on the clock.Oh, and I’ll be on vacation next week, so please don’t let any huge news happen in my absence. Our editor might have a nervous breakdown if there’s news. (Editor’s note: True.)Farhad: OK, that’s it for inane banter. Let’s get to tech news.First: Despite some bluster from the president, it looks like the government is going to let Amazon keep getting bigger. The Federal Trade Commission said that it had investigated Amazon’s proposed purchase of Whole Foods Market on antitrust grounds and found nothing wrong.This was not a huge surprise; investors expected the deal to go through. But President Trump has been criticizing Amazon and its C.E.O., Jeff Bezos, for months — he has repeatedly argued that Bezos’ newspaper, The Washington Post, has been critical of Trump only because Bezos wants favorable treatment for his companies. But it looks like Trump’s bark was worse than his bite.Amazon promptly followed this up by announcing it would lower the prices of some goods at Whole Foods, starting on Monday.Mike: I think this is a bigger deal than people realize. Look at what Amazon is buying here: a bunch of grocery stores, yes. But as I tweeted this week, it really feels like a huge real estate deal to me.Whole Foods owns or leases more than 400 retail locations throughout the United States, each of which sits on anywhere from 25,000 to 50,000 square feet of land. That’s a lot of space. Imagine, as many have said, that Amazon decides to parcel off a piece of each store as a holding zone for Amazon packages or perhaps instant Prime deliveries.One of Amazon’s biggest challenges has been so-called last-mile delivery, or dropping off the item I ordered at my house. Having multiple distribution outlets in city centers could speed up local delivery times.The other thing I keep thinking about are those large kitchens in every Whole Foods. What would keep Amazon from diving into the business of delivering prepared meals, or even meal kits like the ones Blue Apron offers? The possibilities are endless.That said, the deal hasn’t closed quite yet. We’ll see what happens.Farhad: In other retail news, Google and Walmart announced that they would team up to take on Amazon. Google makes a device called Google Home, a voice-activated home assistant that’s meant to compete with Amazon’s Echo assistant. Google’s device is great at Googly things like searching for obscure facts about the War of 1812, but it’s not very good at one of the main things people want from a home computer — shopping for stuff by voice. Amazon’s Echo is obviously very good at that.Mike:  I guess this is interesting, if only Google knew how to do, um, shopping stuff well. They’ve tooled around with it for years but have failed to really make it a priority.Farhad: Enter, Walmart. Customers can now connect their Google and Walmart accounts, letting Walmart learn stuff about your shopping habits from your Google history (yeah, I’m not sure who would do this) and also letting you buy stuff from Walmart by voice. The items will be delivered to you through Google Express, Google’s fast-shipping service.For both companies, this sounds like a fine short-term hedge against Amazon. But they can’t expect this to actually work out in the long run, can they? Amazon has more items and manages the logistics of the whole shopping process. Two companies with different interests working as one seems a bit kludgy to me.Mike:  I imagine if this actually works, the two companies won’t be super interested in staying close partners forever. Aren’t Walmart’s margins thin enough that it makes cutting Google in a bit more difficult? Unless, that is, Google is getting paid with our precious personal shopping data, rather than, you know, actual cash.In any case, I’m curious to see if this actually makes a dent. Amazon is already my default for so much of my online shopping.Farhad: Remember the Apple self-driving car? Over the last few years, we’ve heard endless rumors of Apple plowing huge sums into making a car. And then we began to hear rumors of Apple’s project falling apart.This week, our colleague Daisuke Wakabayashi took an in-depth look at the project and found that it was indeed in disarray, with its once huge ambitions now scaled back enormously. Weirdly, this reminds me of your career.Mike: Hey! I’m comfortable being a B-team tech reporter. It allows me time to pursue my true passion: collecting ’60s-era Japanese action figures.Farhad: But seriously, where Apple once had ambitions to make its own car, now it is working just on the autonomous systems to power other cars — similar to what Waymo, Google’s self-driving spinoff, aims to do. Daisuke reported that Apple will first test its tech on its own employees: It’s building a self-driving shuttle to ferry employees between its buildings.Mike: So Apple is building its own version of Disney World’s monorail, I guess? How retro.Building a car is hard. Building a self-driving car is even harder. And building a self-driving car from scratch, in house, when you’re a tech company that has only ever built phones and computers, seems near impossible. But perhaps I’m being too pessimistic.Farhad: Finally, there was yet more Uber news. Recode reported that the company had moved closer to settling on a new C.E.O., with Jeff Immelt, the former chief of G.E., now getting support from the majority of the Uber board. What do you think — is Immelt going to be the guy? And if not him, who else?Mike: I don’t want to go into it too much, so as not to tip my hand. But it says something to me that only Immelt’s name is being leaked. We’ll see what happens.Farhad: And then there are Uber’s numbers. It’s been operating without a chief and lots of other top executives for months, but that doesn’t seem to be affecting its business.The company is private, but it regularly releases a summary of its financial data to investors. Its latest report shows that Uber’s quarterly revenue after paying out drivers rose to $1.75 billion from $1.5 billion last year, and requests for rides have increased 150 percent since last year. This is despite my column telling people not to ride Uber until it gets its house in order.Honestly, Mike, sometimes I feel like I’m yelling into a void. But really, why is Uber doing so well despite acting so badly? Do customers really just not care? Is there some danger in the numbers we aren’t seeing?Mike:  It’s hard to act according to all your values in every single facet of your life, so maybe folks rationalize it and pick their battles, which doesn’t include taking a stance on Uber.That, or more likely: People just don’t care. Uber is incredibly convenient and works well if you’ve got the money to spend on it. Why go back to waiting on yellow cabs or fighting your way onto a crowded bus if you don’t have to?Farhad: I guess that makes sense. Anyway, have a good vacation! I hope, for our editor’s sake, Uber holds on to all news until you return.