It was one of the biggest frauds ever carried out against the City of New York, and a blot on former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s reputation for managerial and technological savvy. On Wednesday, the criminal prosecutions spawned by the case, involving a computerized payroll system called CityTime, reached a quiet denouement when a federal judge in Manhattan sentenced a computer specialist at the center of the scheme to three years’ probation.Judge George B. Daniels of Federal District Court said he showed leniency to the specialist, Carl Bell, a technology manager who took $6 million in bribes, because he had given crucial help to investigators.The sentence, handed down in a mostly empty courtroom, was in sharp contrast to the 20-year prison terms that Judge Daniels meted out last year to three other men involved in the fraud.The timing of Mr. Bell’s sentencing could be uncomfortable for Mr. Bloomberg, who has floated the possibility of running for president, serving as a reminder of the problems that bedeviled his third term as mayor and dented his reputation as a capable manager.The payroll system was originally budgeted in 1998 to cost $63 million, but by 2011 the cost had ballooned to about $700 million, federal prosecutors said.Mr. Bell was the chief systems engineer on the project for several years, working for the main contractor, Science Applications International Corporation, which prosecutors said was one of the country’s largest government contractors.Prosecutors said that over several years, subcontractors hired for the project gave enormous illicit payments to Mr. Bell; Gerard Denault, his boss at S.A.I.C.; and Mark Mazer, a consultant hired by the city to manage the CityTime initiative. The subcontractors then overbilled for the work they did, which resulted in the vastly inflated cost of the project for the city.Judge Daniels last year sentenced Mr. Mazer, Mr. Denault and one of the contractors, Dmitry Aronshtein, to 20 years in prison. Mr. Bell testified for two days at their trial.S.A.I.C. agreed to pay $500 million in restitution and penalties, most of which went to the city. Federal authorities have also seized about $50 million from Mr. Mazer, Mr. Denault, Mr. Aronshtein and others involved in the fraud.In a letter to the court, Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, praised Mr. Bell and said that his help was vital to obtaining the convictions of the other men and the recovery of money for the city.“I’ve always been taught, when you did something wrong, own up to it, don’t try to hide it,” said Mr. Bell, 53, a heavyset man with a pencil mustache, dressed in a voluminous dark suit, who sighed loudly several times as he spoke to the judge. “And that’s what I did.”Mr. Bell, a divorced father of three teenage girls, added, “I’m sorry.”No family members accompanied Mr. Bell to court.His lawyer, Barry A. Weinstein, said Mr. Bell had agreed to forfeit a sum equivalent to the $6 million he had received in bribes, and that $700,000 had been seized so far.Mr. Bell, he said, now works part time for $10.75 an hour, doing in-store promotions at a BJ’s Wholesale Club store in Connecticut, where he lives.The judge also ordered Mr. Bell to perform 200 hours of community service.Although the case had once received a high level of attention, the hearing on Wednesday, held in a wood-paneled courtroom, was attended only by two or three journalists, a few lawyers, some of whom were waiting for other cases to be heard, and a couple of people who said they represented S.A.I.C. (one of whom emitted her own loud sighs when Mr. Weinstein said the company was corrupt “from top to bottom”).Mr. Bloomberg may prefer that the case be forgotten.In 2013, toward the end of his third and final term as mayor, Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged the fraud on his watch but, according to local news reports, said that the city was lucky in the end and that it had actually wound up saving money because of the restitution paid by S.A.I.C. The fraud was originally discovered by the city’s Investigation Department, which then worked with federal authorities on the case.It is also possible that the case may well be resurrected: Two contractors charged in the fraud, Reddy and Padma Allen, fled the country, and prosecutors said they were believed to be in India.