The gun-control debate is one of the most contentious in American politics, pitting proponents of regulation against gun-rights advocates. Behind all of this is the Second Amendment.“It’s only 27 words long,” said Adam Liptak, who covers the Supreme Court for The New York Times. “But it is probably the most cryptic part of the United States Constitution.”This video explainer breaks down those 27 words, teases out the two clauses that judges and scholars examine and looks at how the amendment is interpreted today.In this video:• Mr. Liptak has covered the Supreme Court for 10 years. Before that, he was a national legal correspondent, covering the law more generally. He joined The Times after practicing law for 14 years.Background reading and watching:• Trump Says Second Amendment ‘Will Never Be Repealed’• Demonstrators Who Brought Guns and an Opposing Message: ‘Shoot Back’• Trump’s Evolving Positions on Gun Issues• Once Again, Push for Gun Control Collides With Political Reality• 6 Stories and Charts to Help You Better Understand Gun Violence in the U.S.From the opinion pages: • John Paul Stevens, a retired Supreme Court justice, writes, Repeal the Second Amendment
WASHINGTON —  Liberal billionaire philanthropist George Soros and his foundations did not pay protesters to rally against gun violence in the U.S. capital.The Tea Party Commander Center blog claimed Soros paid protesters $300 each at the March for Our Lives in Washington on March 24. The piece included an image of an online advertisement that it said Soros organizers posted, but the ad is a freelance job listing for people to sell merchandise at a sister march in Los Angeles."Neither Mr. Soros nor the Open Society Foundations paid protesters," said Laura Silber, the foundations' chief communications officer.Students organized the rallies after a Feb. 14 shooting that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Some survivors have called for a ban on high-capacity magazines and assault-type weapons, comprehensive background checks for gun buyers and a higher minimum age to purchase guns.Soros is known for his support of American liberal and progressive causes. He is a frequent target of conspiracy theories.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.
(Reuters) - Vermont lawmakers gave final legislative approval on Friday to a bill that raises the legal age for buying firearms and expands background checks, becoming the latest state poised to tighten gun restrictions after last month's Florida school massacre.The Democrat-controlled state Senate approved the measure, S55, in a 17-13 vote, according to the online legislative record. The bill passed the state House of Representatives this week.The measure now goes to Republican Governor Phil Scott, who has shifted his stance and voiced support for some gun controls after the arrest in February of a Vermont teenager accused of threatening to shoot up a high school. The incident came two days after a former student killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, on Feb. 14.Scott's support for gun controls marked a sharp switch for a governor with a 93 percent approval rating from the National Rifle Association (NRA) gun rights advocacy group in an otherwise politically liberal state with a reputation as a pro-gun stronghold.Vermont, a largely rural New England state with a passion for hunting, is one of two dozen states where efforts to curb gun violence have gained momentum since the Feb. 14 shooting rampage that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.The Vermont bill raises the age for gun purchases to 21 and expands background checks for private gun sales. It also bans magazines of more than 10 rounds for long guns and 15 rounds for pistols as well as rapid-fire devices known as bump stocks.Vermont Public Radio reported that the Senate would take up two more gun-related measures next week. Both are aimed at removing guns from homes in cases of domestic violence or when someone is at risk of imminent harm from firearms, it said.Gun control advocates say the turnaround in Vermont and other states has been propelled in part by the groundswell of student-led lobbying efforts and protests calling for firearms restrictions.After the Parkland massacre, Florida's Republican-controlled legislature swiftly passed a bill that raised the age requirement and set a three-day waiting period for gun purchases and allowed the arming of some school personnel. The measure was  signed into law by another Republican with strong NRA credentials, Governor Rick Scott.(Reporting by Ian Simpson in Washington; Editing by Susan Thomas)
It was a sign that Rita Prats had recently eyed with intrigue while walking down Second Avenue in Manhattan: “Plaza Prayers for Lent.”On the morning of Good Friday, she decided to follow its instructions, grabbing a pen and purple ribbon from the available box. “This one is for my older brother, Alfredo, who died yesterday,” she said, as she wrote. “I just want to thank him for the wonderful things he did during his life, and just how much he enjoyed his life.”Ms. Prats, 52, of East Harlem, then tied her purple ribbon to one of the many handrails and short birch trees outside of the Church of the Epiphany, an age-old Roman Catholic church in Gramercy Park, joining thousands of others before her who, for the last four weeks, have turned the church’s outside plaza into a public display of deeply felt love and loss.“Many cities, like Paris and London, have something like this, but New York City doesn’t. You’d get a summons if you did this anywhere,” Ms. Prats said, nodding to the ribbons behind her. “It’s a public expression that’s missing in this city, where we can say our hopes and feelings. People really need that.”The sentiments varied in subject, with most concerning hardship on a more personal level. “Please keep my father safe and alive during his upcoming heart surgeries,” one read; another said, “I hope my grandmother gets better every day.” Several others addressed the anguish of the daily news cycle. “I pray for the victims of the Parkland shooting,” someone wrote. “To the lives lost in Syria,” said another.Angelo Guzzo, 47, of Manhattan, held back tears when he tried to explain the ribbon he quickly signed on Friday. “It’s just for my two sons, my wife, and my mother, who’s battling cancer,” he said. “I’m not really religious, but I just think every little thing helps.”The ribbons were the idea of the Rev. James Mayzik, who arrived at the church in September from Fairfield, Conn. There, he had asked his congregants to do something they weren’t used to: write down personal prayers — ones that went beyond broad calls for world peace — on a small piece of paper and hand them to him.“I left with stacks of prayers,” he recalled. “And I realized just how emotional they were. ‘My son won’t talk to me.’ ‘We can’t pay our mortgage.’ I’d get choked up, and couldn’t finish reading them.”When he came to the Church of the Epiphany, Father Mayzik, 56, wanted to try the same exercise, but on a grand scale. He hung a few ribbons up first himself, and invited passers-by to participate with just a box and a sign. Thousands showed up. “It just shows that we’re all walking around here with these problems,” he said outside of the church on Friday. “But it’s all of us here. We’re all in this together.”On Easter Sunday, Father Mayzik plans to tie different colored ribbons around a large cross in the plaza’s center and leave them up for 50 days. He hopes to preserve the prayers in some way, he said, and return next year with more.Karen Bettilyon slowly strolled through the plaza on her way out of services on Friday, reading as many ribbons as she could.One, written by a child, asked for students and teacher to be safe from gun violence, she said. Another prayed for the families in Puerto Rico who were still struggling in the wake of Hurricane Maria.“Just the difference in people’s prayers is what really strikes me,” Ms. Bettilyon said. “You really feel this mass of humanity, with their hopes, and worries.”Visiting her daughter from Chicago, Ms. Bettilyon, 57, said she had looked for a service to attend for Good Friday, but had not known about the “prayer plaza” at the Church of the Epiphany beforehand.“It was something I wasn’t expecting to see or feel in New York, to be honest,” she said of the countless ribbons waving in the wind. “And this is just one corner of New York City. Think of all the prayers in the world.”
HARTFORD, Conn. —  U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty, an outspoken advocate for the #MeToo movement, has found herself in the awkward position of apologizing for not protecting female staffers in her Washington office who say they experienced violence, death threats and sexual harassment by her former chief of staff.She dismissed calls Friday to step down.The Democrat has issued press releases calling for tougher harassment protections for congressional staff and was among those demanding that then-U.S. Rep. John Conyers of Michigan resign amid allegations of misconduct with staff. She issued her own public mea culpa Thursday following newspaper reports she did not suspend or fire the chief of staff until three months after learning about allegations against him in 2016.Esty said she regrets not moving along an internal investigation into the allegations, which revealed more widespread alleged abuse, and regrets providing "even the slightest assistance to this individual as he sought a new job."In advance of the news stories published by Hearst Connecticut Media and the Washington Post, Esty made it a point to call or meet with representatives of at least three grassroots Connecticut groups that have been allies of hers on issues affecting women."I felt that she wanted to let me know what the situation was as someone who is involved in women's issues," said Cindy Wolfe Boynton, president of CT Now, a group that has endorsed Esty in past elections. "She did say more than once during the telephone call how she felt that she really did handle the situation poorly and was extremely remorseful for that."Boynton said it seemed Esty was "doing her best to handle the situation" in her office, but the group wants to know more about what happened."As things stand now, I think there's a lot more information about the case that needs to come out," she said.In her apology, Esty said she was "horrified and angry" to learn in 2016 that a former employee had been harassed and physically harmed, allegedly by former chief of staff Tony Baker. She said she demanded Baker receive counseling.She then conducted an internal review of her office practices, later learning "the threat of violence was not an isolated incident" but a pattern of behavior by Baker affecting many female staffers.She said she was advised by the Office of House Employment Counsel to enter into a nondisclosure agreement with Baker, who then went to work as the Ohio state director of Sandy Hook Promise, an anti-gun violence advocacy group created in the wake of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in Esty's district. He no longer works for the group.A spokesman for Baker told Hearst Connecticut Media and the Washington Post that he denies some of the allegations. A number listed for a Tony Baker in Columbus, Ohio, was disconnected.Karen Jarmoc, executive director of the coalition against domestic violence, said Esty reached out to her last weekend and asked to meet at Jarmoc's office."This is a really troubling circumstance, but my sense that I received from her on Monday is that her priority was looking out for the survivor ultimately. Initially there were clearly some missteps," Jarmoc said. "What I received from her on Monday was a genuine desire to make things better" for employees the workplace.In an editorial calling on Esty to resign, the Hartford Courant said Esty's answers so far have been disappointing, saying "she has blamed the system and hasn't taken nearly enough responsibility for her own actions." The Courant added that "time was up for John Conyers and now time is up for Elizabeth Esty."JR Romano, the state's Republican Party chairman, also has called on Esty to step down. The state GOP sent out emails, accusing Esty of being "complicit in covering up assault."Esty received mild criticism from fellow Democratic members of Connecticut's congressional delegation, with nearly all noting that Esty acknowledged she had made mistakes."I'm deeply disappointed. I'm just learning the facts," U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal told reporters while attending an event in Connecticut.Asked whether Esty should resign, the senator said, "what she does in the future is really a decision for her constituents. She needs to talk to her constituents."
Today’s teenagers have been raised on cellphones and social media. Should we worry about them or just get out of their way?A recent wave of student protests around the country has provided a close-up view of Generation Z in action, and many adults have been surprised. While there has been much hand-wringing about this cohort, also called iGen or the Post-Millennials, the stereotype of a disengaged, entitled and social-media-addicted generation doesn’t match the poised, media-savvy and inclusive young people leading the protests and gracing magazine covers.There’s 18-year-old Emma González, whose shaved head, impassioned speeches and torn jeans have made her the iconic face of the #NeverAgain movement, which developed after the 17 shooting deaths in February at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. Naomi Wadler, just 11, became an overnight sensation after confidently telling a national television audience she represented “African-American girls whose stories don’t make the front page of every national newspaper.” David Hogg, a high school senior at Stoneman Douglas, has weathered numerous personal attacks with the disciplined calm of a seasoned politician.Sure, these kids could be outliers. But plenty of adolescent researchers believe they are not.“I think we must contemplate that technology is having the exact opposite effect than we perceived,” said Julie Lythcott-Haims, the former dean of freshmen at Stanford University and author of “How to Raise an Adult.” “We see the negatives of not going outside, can’t look people in the eye, don’t have to go through the effort of making a phone call. There are ways we see the deficiencies that social media has offered, but there are obviously tremendous upsides and positives as well.”“I am fascinated by the phenomenon we are seeing in front of us, and I don’t think it’s unique to these six or seven kids who have been the face of the Parkland adolescent cohort,” says Lisa Damour, an adolescent psychologist and author of “Untangled: Guiding Teenage Girls Through the Seven Transitions Into Adulthood.”“They are so direct in their messaging. They are so clear. They seem unflappable.”Dr. Damour, who has spent her career talking and listening to teenagers, said she believes the Parkland teens are showing the world the potential of their peer group. “Those of us who live with teenagers and are around them can see something that is different about this generation,” she said.There is still much to learn about the postmillennial cohort — social scientists haven’t even agreed on when this generation begins, although there seems to be a consensus forming that the year 2000, give or take a few years, is a good place to start. But data collected from various health surveys already show that today’s teens are different from previous generations in many ways.Many risky behaviors have dropped sharply among today’s teens. Cigarette smoking among teens is at a historic low since peaking in the mid 1990s. Alcohol use has also declined significantly — the number of teens who have used alcohol in the past 30 days is down by half since the 1990s. Teen pregnancy rates have hit historic lows, and teens over all are waiting longer to have sex than their parent’s generation. Teen driving fatalities are down about 64 percent since 1975. Some of that is attributed to safer cars, but teen crashes have declined between 10 and 30 percent in states with tiered licensing systems, and teen drunken driving has dropped while teen seatbelt use has increased.While most health researchers celebrate these changes in teen health, some scientists think the trends suggest a lower level of maturity among today’s teens. Perhaps teens are safer simply because their reliance on social media and smartphone use means they are getting out less. In September, the journal Child Development published a study by Jean Twenge, a psychology professor at San Diego State University, noting that there is a decline in a number of “adult” activities among today’s teens. In seven large, nationally representative surveys of eight million American adolescents from 1976 to 2016, fewer adolescents in recent years are having sex, dating, drinking alcohol, driving, working for pay and going out without their parents.“The big picture is that they are taking longer to grow up,” said Dr. Twenge, whose latest book is “iGen: Why Today’s Super-Connected Kids Are Growing Up Less Rebellious, More Tolerant, Less Happy — and Completely Unprepared for Adulthood.”In an article in The Atlantic last fall titled “Have Smartphones Destroyed a Generation?,” Dr. Twenge argued that teens are more comfortable in their bedrooms or on smartphones or social media than at a party. While they are physically safer than past generations as a result, rates of teen depression and suicide are on the rise. “It’s not an exaggeration to describe iGen as being on the brink of the worst mental-health crisis in decades,” she wrote. “Much of this deterioration can be traced to their phones.”But a number of social scientists and adolescent health researchers disagree with that conclusion. While teen depression and suicide rates are worrisome, there is no causal link to show those trends are the result of smartphones and social media. In fact, a  literature review by Unicef researchers in December found that moderate use of digital technology tends to be beneficial for children’s mental well-being, while no use or too much use is associated with a “small negative impact.” The larger issues that affect a child’s well-being are family functioning, social dynamics at school and socio-economic conditions, the report concluded.Don Tapscott, author of “Grown Up Digital,” said he believes today’s teenagers are better communicators than any previous generation. “They didn’t grow up being the passive recipients of somebody else’s broadcast,” he said. “They grew up being interactors and communicators. In the 1960s we had a generation gap. What we have today is a generation lap — they are lapping their parents on the digital track.”The clinical psychologist Wendy Mogel interviewed groups of middle school and high school students around the country in 2015 and 2016 for her new book, “Voice Lessons for Parents: What to Say, How to Say It and When to Listen.” Dr. Mogel spoke with diverse kids from various regions and walks of life, but found herself consistently impressed by their thoughtfulness, how much they liked their parents, and how much they cared about the world around them.“The press and general public like to see them as spoiled and not having to work hard for anything except grades and being very entitled,” Dr. Mogel said. “But they’re courageous, energetic, optimistic and really smart.”Neil Howe, a historian whose books include “Millennials Rising,” said that unlike earlier generations, today’s teens have accepted the structures of society and have learned to work within those boundaries. “They’re very good at using rules to make their point, and they’re absolutely excellent at negotiating with their parents, and negotiating in a reasonable way about how to bend these rules in a way that will make them more effective and give them more space,” he said. “This is not a ‘throw the brick through the window and burn stuff down’ group of kids at all. They’re working very constructively, arm-in-arm with older people they trust, to make big institutions work better and make them stronger and more effective.”Ms. Lythcott-Haims notes that the current crop of teenagers is the first generation to grow up with active shooter drills since kindergarten. “I think what we might have here is a generation that really defines itself by the markers of their childhoods,” she said. “In addition to being marked by these gun violence tragedies, they came to consciousness with a black man in the White House and smartphones in their hands.”What does all this mean for the future of today’s teens? All of the researchers agreed there is still much more to learn about this cohort, but what we know so far is promising.“We are in the process of distilling the data and discerning who they are, but I am excited,” said Ms. Lythcott-Haims. “We don’t know who they will be in their 20s, but already they have agency, the sense of your own existence, your own right to make decisions and your own responsibility for outcomes and consequences. That’s what we need to have to be mentally well. I think these folks could turn out not to be just leaders, but to be a generation that we look back on and end up calling one of the greatest.”
In 2000, Ta-Nehisi Coates and Kamilah Forbes shared a moment of intense pain. Their friend and former classmate Prince Jones had been shot to death by a police officer in Virginia. Mr. Coates wrote in his 2015 book “Between the World and Me” that after learning the news he dropped off his infant son with Ms. Forbes — called “Aunt Kamilah” in the book — so he could attend Jones’s funeral. “I sat there feeling myself a heretic, believing only in this one-shot life and the body,” he wrote.Now, 18 years later, Mr. Coates and Ms. Forbes will reconvene in Harlem as she adapts and directs the world premiere stage adaptation of “Between the World and Me” at the Apollo Theater. They’ve come a long way since then, with many achievements to their names: Mr. Coates is a MacArthur fellow, while Ms. Forbes is the executive producer for the Apollo. But they hope to conjure the visceral anger and grief they felt right after Jones’s death to galvanize a society still besieged by gun violence and discrimination.“It’s unfortunate that every single week there is another world event that happens that makes the language even more relevant,” Ms. Forbes said in an interview.The production will run for two nights, April 2 and 3, before traveling to the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C., on April 7. It won’t quite be a play or a straight recitation of the celebrated book, which won the National Book Award and was a Pulitzer Prize finalist. Excerpts and fragments will be read either solo or in groups by a cast that includes the actress Angela Bassett and the rappers Common and Black Thought. Projections visualizing Mr. Coates’s vivid imagery will tower behind them, and the jazz musician Jason Moran will perform a live score with a trio.“How do we, in an overwhelming, arresting, and gorgeously beautiful way, illuminate all that the book is?” Ms. Forbes said.Back in 2015, as soon as Ms. Forbes finished the book, she knew she wanted to turn it into a stage production. The only thing in her way was Mr. Coates himself. “My recollection is I didn’t want to do it,” he said in a phone interview. “When ‘Between the World and Me’ came out, a lot of people had ideas for things, and I was just really tired and kind of suspicious.”It was his longstanding friendship with Ms. Forbes that softened his stance and led him to award her the stage rights. They met in 1994, when Ms. Forbes was a freshman at Howard University and Mr. Coates was a sophomore; they helped organize a hip-hop and poetry cypher on campus that year and remained close ever since. “Knowing Kam, there’s nobody else I would have trusted to do it,” Mr. Coates said.But rather than providing input, Mr. Coates decided to remove himself from the process entirely and give Ms. Forbes full artistic control. When Ms. Forbes tried showing Mr. Coates some of the more aggressive edits, he declined to look at all. “Kam has the freedom to pursue her truth. She don’t need me breathing down her neck,” he said, adding jokingly: “I’ll give you my review next week. We’ll see if this friendship is still a thing.”At a rehearsal at the Apollo on Friday, Mr. Moran sat at a grand piano on a platform far above the stage, attacking taut arpeggio patterns with the bassist Mimi Jones and the drummer Nate Smith. Mr. Moran, a MacArthur fellow and composer behind the score for the 2014 film “Selma,” nonetheless approached the project with trepidation. “I usually think that nothing needs music because I love silence so much,” he said.Onstage, his anxious chords matched the book’s seething tone and simmering tension. “What I like about the book is that there’s no soft edge on it,” Mr. Moran said. “I’m trying to make sure I don’t soften anything up.” Behind and below him, the projections, by the artist Tal Yarden, flashed across multiple screens, showing the smiling face of Prince Jones, or two black hands outstretched in surrender or protest.To adapt the book, Ms. Forbes enlisted two dramaturges, Lauren A. Whitehead and Talvin Wilks, who faced the challenge of paring down a text that, under 200 pages, was already concise. They decided to use the poetry technique of erasure, which consists of blacking out portions of a larger text, to expose terse emotional outbursts and visually arresting moments.In his book, for example, Mr. Coates wrote about Jones’s murder: “This entire episode took me from fear to a rage that burned in me then, animates me now, and will likely leave me on fire for the rest of my days.”In the production, the sentence became: “This entire episode took me from fear to / rage / Fire for the rest of my days.”The process stripped away Mr. Coates’s sober tone, Ms. Whitehead said, revealing that “there was actually a voice of rage.”Ms. Forbes and the two dramaturges started to develop the work at an intensive two-week residency at Sundance in December along with four actors, including the Tony-nominated actress Michelle Wilson (“Sweat”), who will perform in Monday’s show. The reading sessions were filled with discussions, arguments and crying.“The first day was so emotionally and spiritually exhausting,” Ms. Wilson said.Eventually, the team whittled down the book into a 90-minute presentation consisting of 21 excerpts from the book. The cast, which will be different for each performance and includes Susan Kelechi Watson, Joe Morton and Pauletta Washington, will not memorize lines but rather will rely on scripts onstage to channel the effect of reading something powerful for the first time.Some excerpts will be read verbatim, while other poetic passages will be less recognizable, with dialogue being passed back and forth among actors. One of those moments, which captures Mr. Coates’ whirlwind education at Howard, “relies on overlap and speed,” Ms. Whitehead said. “You have this feeling of vertigo, which is what he was experiencing when he was learning all these other black narratives he had never heard before.”In Harlem, the production will be seen by thousands, including the one person the book was meant for originally. Mr. Coates said that his son, Samori, whom “Between the World and Me” is addressed to, will be in the audience. He will watch as an intensely personal letter will be transformed into a communal performance.Though there are no concrete plans for further shows, Ms. Forbes said she will observe how the text from three years ago plays to an already drastically changed world and think about how the project could continue and evolve.“If there isn’t an immediate resonant response, for at least the work we’ve set out to do, we’ve got to change it,” she said. “It’s not just a reflection: I see this work as a call to action.”
Hildy Kuryk was thinking about working at a hedge fund. “I think you’ll find it boring,” Anna Wintour told her. It was 2013, and Ms. Kuryk — who had just left her post as the national finance director of the Democratic National Committee — was at Condé Nast seeking career advice from the well-connected Vogue editor in chief.Ms. Wintour was right. After a couple of meetings, Ms. Kuryk knew the finance game was not for her.Instead, Ms. Kuryk soon found herself back at Condé Nast, no longer looking for a job but serving as Vogue’s director of communications, and the media gatekeeper to Ms. Wintour (who doubles as the artistic director of Condé Nast).But in June, Ms. Kuryk decided to strike out on her own and start a consulting film, Artemis Strategies, which she is pitching to clients as a vehicle to help them craft their message for socially aware consumers.“People have been giving away money generously for decades. That’s not in dispute,” Ms. Kuryk, 40, said during a recent interview in the office she now rents from Condé Nast at 1 World Trade Center. “I can help consumer-facing companies deepen their civic engagement and tell their value story better.”Those companies also need to navigate potential pitfalls. As the firm’s website states, “In an unpredictable political landscape brands need to be acutely aware and cautious who they align with.”Ms. Wintour, for one, seems to think starting a consulting firm is a good career move for Ms. Kuryk. “You could say we took a risk hiring Hildy back in 2013 — she came from politics and made no pretense that she knew much about the fashion world,” she said. “But the risk paid off. Hildy is smart, a quick study, and, best of all, her judgment is sound.”Ms. Kuryk has two simultaneous goals with Artemis. The first is to make sure brands like Pepsi never release another ad like 2017’s disastrous conflation of Kendall Jenner, protest and the Black Lives Matter movement. The second is to reinvent the concept of corporate social responsibility by integrating it into every aspect of a company’s management, and not shunt it off, she said, to “a separate office down the hall.”Partly because of the reach of social media, partly because of a new era of civic engagement (some of it in response to the polarizing first year of the Trump administration), corporations are increasingly embracing message-based marketing. Examples include Nickelodeon’s going off the air for 17 minutes in solidarity with victims of gun violence, McDonald’s turning its golden arches upside down to mark International Women’s Day.“Companies are being asked and demanded to state their values,” Ms. Kuryk said. “And how they seize this moment could pay massive business and messaging dividends for them.”But not all such moves have gone smoothly, from that short-lived Pepsi commercial to the widely criticized Ram commercial, aired during the Super Bowl this year, that used a sermon from the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to sell trucks, to the criticism (by, among others, Chance the Rapper) of Heineken’s series of commercials for its light beer and the tagline, “Sometimes, Lighter Is Better.”“The Pepsi and Kendall Jenner thing — I was tearing my hair out,” Ms. Kuryk said. “I wanted to be there long before they shot it so I could say: ‘Hey, guys, I know some people. Let’s call them.’”Born and raised in Manhattan, Ms. Kuryk graduated from Vanderbilt with a degree in political science. She worked in Bill Clinton’s White House and as a fund-raiser for Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign before joining the finance wing of the Democratic National Committee.With her business not yet a year old, Ms. Kuryk has picked up some splashy clients, including Nordstrom (a company about to open the first Manhattan location for its flagship brand, a men’s wear shop, at 235 West 57th), the news briefing service the Skimm, as well as Condé Nast, with a focus on Vogue and its high-profile Met Gala.Ms. Kuryk’s experience of toggling between the private and public sectors could help her take advantage of the openings in a rapidly developing market.“There’s huge demand right now for professionals who can teach businesses how to navigate these new consumer expectations and for corporations to take stances on political issues and practice good corporate social responsibility,” said Kara Alaimo, assistant professor of public relations at Hofstra University.“What’s astonishing is that we’re consistently seeing major brands who can’t seem to apply basic principles of how to make decisions when they’re taking stances on political issues,” she added.And it will only become more important. A recent paper titled “The Dawn of CEO Activism,” published by the public relations giant Weber Shandwick, noted that millennials — consumers ages 18 to 35 — showed the greatest positive response to corporate activism.Which raises a question: Isn’t this more of a gig for an actual millennial?“You can’t have a millennial do this job, because you need someone who actually has some real experience — up and down,” Ms. Kuryk said.Dr. Alaimo backed her up: “My feeling is you do want a seasoned professional. It’s not a case where a millennial can intuit what will work. You want to be making decisions based on research and best practices.”And having some very well-known names in her corner can’t hurt.“She treats everyone with respect and appreciation for the value of the role they play,” said Valerie Jarrett, the former senior White House adviser to Mr. Obama, who has worked closely with Ms. Kuryk over the years. “That’s the skill set that will make her very effective with clients.”
MEMPHIS — March for Our Lives, the student-driven protest against gun violence. The Millions March against police violence. The Sacramento protest over the fatal shooting of Stephon Clark. Had he survived, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. would have been there, walking, talking, listening, present, as he was for countless body-on-the-line campaigns for social justice in the 1950s and ’60s.He was organizing a march in the final days of his life. On April 3, 1968, he came to Memphis on what was a fast return trip. A peaceful demonstration five days earlier in support of black city sanitation workers had ended in a panicked rout when militant protesters stirred up the crowd, and the police came down hard. Now he was back.That night, at a local church, he delivered his apocalyptic “Mountaintop” speech. People cheered. His mood brightened. He spent much of the next day, April 4, at the black-owned Lorraine Motel, waiting for the city to approve a permit for the second march. When it finally came through, he relaxed. Everything would be O.K.Around 6:00, he strolled onto the balcony outside his second-floor room and bantered with friends in the parking lot below. There was the crack of a gunshot. He staggered and dropped.Dr. King’s death shook the nation, inspired outpourings of grief, rage, and in some quarters, relief. Two months later, Robert F. Kennedy was killed and mourning shifted, the news cycle moved on. In the years that followed, the Lorraine Motel slowly fell into disrepair until, in 1991, it was rescued and reopened as the National Civil Rights Museum. An expansion in 2014 brought in new visitors. And the 50th anniversary of the King assassination, coming now as it does in a politically sundered, racially fraught year, should bring in more, with a special exhibition, starting April 4, comparing contemporary events like the Occupy movement and the Living Wage Campaign with King’s Poor People’s Campaign and sanitation strike.What they’ll find in its permanent collection is a monument to a movement and, secondarily, to a man, in a display that focuses on difficult, sometimes ambiguous historical data more than on pure celebration. And they’ll find, if they are patient, useful information for the 2018 present, and for the future.The shape of the story told by the museum is chronological, a narrative of African-American life that starts with colonial slavery, moves through the long Jim Crow era, and then lingers over the civil rights events of the 1950s and ’60s: the bus boycotts, the Freedom Rides; the Washington march; the Birmingham children’s crusade, the Selma-to-Montgomery walk for the vote; the Memphis strike.It’s a story of high contrasts: good versus bad, right versus wrong. And the museum presents it that way. In windowless, black-box galleries, objects are picked out in pin spots; words and images glow on digital screens. They are the visual equivalents of references to light that glint in Dr. King’s speeches, to “luminous brotherhood,” “the sunlight of opportunity,” “the radiant promises of progress.” He called the Memphis strike another step on the journey from “the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice.”Such imagery has always been part of popular accounts of the movement. In another Southern museum, the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum, which opened in Jackson, Miss., late last year, the galleries are, as in Memphis, somber and shadowy, but they open onto a central hall furnished with benches and holding a big sculpture made of swirling, pulsating light. The message: history is grim, but it’s also redemptive. You can break for uplift any time.The Memphis museum uses light to dramatic effect, but in a very different way. After you’ve walked though sequential decades of history, you arrive at 1968, instantly recognizable from a mural-size image by the Memphis photographer Ernest C. Withers of sanitation workers carrying protest placards reading “I AM A MAN.” You pass through a narrow passageway and suddenly the artificial twilight you’ve become used to becomes daylight.You are inside the Lorraine Motel, on the second floor, outside Room 306, Dr. King’s room, visible through a cutaway wall: turned-down beds; open suitcases; coffee cups, sunlight seeping through curtains — preserved mostly as it was when he died. And just outside the room is the balcony door. You look through its window and see where Dr. King fell and, some distance away, the back of a building, the former rooming house — now part of the museum — from which his killer took aim. (James Earl Ray died while serving a 99-year sentence.)Unlike the museum’s other displays, this one is minimally theatrical: real-world light falling on plain, real-world things. Also, it’s a dead end. Your pilgrim’s progress into history is, abruptly, over. If the civil rights movement extended beyond April 4, 1968, you don’t learn that here. Your choices are either to return the way you came or head for a closer exit.The story the museum tells stirs emotions but leaves them unresolved. In many ways the experience, whether intended or not, is in sync with the political atmosphere of the country today. Uplift feels anachronistic; progress is cut off; the future left unimagined.Dr. King may have shared similar feelings. In our journey through the museum, he has been our Virgil, our calm, sage guide through the hell and heaven of postwar racial history. In Room 306, he becomes our frustrated, anxious contemporary.When he checked into the Lorraine on April 3, he was in a dark mood, not just from the first, failed march, but from a political environment that had turned unpredictable. His speech that night was a sonorous movement pep talk. But there was regret in it. It was mortality-tinged:“Like anybody, I would like to live a long life. Longevity has its place. But I’m not concerned about that now. I just want to do God’s will. And He’s allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I’ve looked over. And I’ve seen the promised land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight, that we, as a people will get to the promised land.”I wonder if, at that point, he really believed we would get to this “promised land” of racial harmony anytime soon. By that point, integration was, technically, reality, with Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kan., and the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964. But so was the anger, both black and white, that the fight for equality had generated. By the mid-1960s, Dr. King was sensing that the nonviolent resistance he had built his reputation on was inadequate. He continued to preach an ideal of reform-through-love, but he was starting to think about “a radical revolution of values.”He was thinking global. It had become clear to him that racism was not a stand-alone evil. It was an organic element in a disease complex that included capitalism, colonialism and militarism. In 1965, in a break with his assigned public role fighting racism Dr. King spoke out against the war in Vietnam. It confused supporters and earned him vindictive enemies. By the time he checked into Room 306, he was, for good reason, feeling vulnerable and fatalistic. He had been to the mountaintop; but he had hit some valleys too.My guess is that if Martin Luther King Jr. of 1968 were to return to 2018 America, he would be unsurprised by some of what he’d find: the staggering numbers of black men in jail; the recurrent killings of unarmed black youths by police; the emboldened presence of white supremacism. As a leader, he shaped a great humanitarian movement; as a thinker, he came to understand humanism’s deep flaws.I wonder what he would think about how we engage with the history he helped create. A glance at contemporary art might give him some clues. In 1988, the African-American artist Glenn Ligon took as a subject a foundational civil rights emblem, the “I AM A MAN” strike placard, and did several things to it simultaneously: He replicated it, customized it, and critiqued it.He turned it into a painting. In doing so, he paid homage to the mass-printed original; he gave its adamant words a new, queer dimension (Mr. Ligon is gay); and he turned an activist artifact, one that functioned as demand for economic equity, into an elite museum object, its text now done in glossy, light-catching enamel. (The painting is currently on view at the National Gallery of Art in Washington,  in honor of the King anniversary.)On multiple levels, Mr. Ligon made a piece of civil rights history his own, though attempts by other artists to do something similar have backfired. A recent example is the painting “Open Casket” by Dana Schutz, in the 2017 Whitney Biennial. The source of the image in this case was also a movement icon: a 1955 post mortem photograph of Emmett Till, a black teenager who, after being accused of whistling at a white woman, was murdered. At his mother’s insistence, Till’s tortured body was put on public view and photographed. The pictures, printed in Jet magazine, are credited with bringing many people into the civil rights movement, among them Dr. King.At the Whitney, the painting sparked protests by some black artists who demanded its removal. At issue was that Ms. Schutz is white. Dr. King’s initial vision for the civil rights movement was one of racial harmony; blacks and whites working together to achieve equal lives for all. Possibly in those early days, Ms. Schutz’s painting might have passed as a gesture of solidarity.But by 1968, it was clear, even to moderate blacks, that sharing power was not likely to happen. For the Whitney protesters, “Open Casket” was an emblem of the continuing exercise of white privilege that, in this case, allowed a white-controlled museum and a white artist to lay claim to a sensational image of black pain.I suspect that the Dr. King of Room 306 would have understood the protesters’ point. In his Nobel Peace Prize acceptance speech, given in 1964, when he was 35, he said that he could not, would not, permit himself to envision a world in which humanity was “so tragically bound to the starless midnight of racism and war that the bright daybreak of peace and brotherhood can never become a reality.” But over the next four years, as Vietnam ground on, civil rights activists met violent ends, and race wars laid waste to American cities, daybreak must have seemed far-off.To idealists of the 21st century, it may seem that on many social, economic and ethical fronts the country has come to what seems a futureless halt, just as the museum’s civil rights story does. But rather than exit the scene in weariness or frustration, we would do well to go back in time. If we stay alert, we can find instruction there.The emphasis of the present-day protest movements is on inclusion: equal salaries, equal education, the right to marry. The goal is to get a share in the system. The civil rights movement began with that goal too, then realized that the system was the problem. Dr. King eventually came to this conviction, and in some ways it made the end of his life hard, complicated and unsettled.Other people, however, held that view all along, and many of them were women. Sexism was rampant within the movement leadership. Women were expected to make coffee, make nice and stay home. Some, like Ella Baker, a tireless civil rights organizer, refused. True monuments have yet to be raised to enough of these women. One, Fannie Lou Hamer (1917-1977), was a monument herself.A Mississippi Delta field worker, she was jailed and beaten when she tried to register to vote at 46, but went on to run for Congress. Her televised testimony, to determine whether she and her all-black Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party could be seated at the Democratic National Convention, is in the National Civil Rights Museum. Hamer’s unscripted account of her jail experience, with its blunt challenge — “I question America” — is overwhelming: dark and incandescent.In May 1963, in Birmingham, Ala., Dr. King organized the most brilliant civil disobedience campaigns of his career, when he brought more than a thousand black schoolchildren into the streets to demonstrate against segregation. Hundreds were arrested; others were blasted with fire hoses. When people rebuked Dr. King for putting young people at risk, he said: “Don’t hold them back if they want to go to jail. For they are doing a job not only for themselves, but for all of America and for all mankind.” The world reacted, shamed the city and Birmingham took its first steps toward desegregation.It occurred to me while I was listening to Hamer that her equivalents today may be Black Lives Matter and #MeToo. And the Children’s Campaign lives on in March for Our Lives and #NeverAgain. Dr. King, at the end of his life, set for himself a goal that all worthy leaders might strive for: to live a life of “dangerous unselfishness.” In 2018, this could yield an imaginable future.The sermon Dr. King gave the night before he died was somber and cautionary but also gave reason for hope. “Only when it’s dark enough,” he said, “can you see the stars.”
