Cambridge Analytica, the political data firm with ties to President Trump’s 2016 campaign, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday, amid the furor over the access it gained to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users.The decision came after a television broadcast in which Mr. Nix was recorded suggesting that the company had used seduction and bribery to entrap politicians and influence foreign elections.The suspension represented a new low point for the fortunes of Cambridge Analytica and for Mr. Nix, who spent much of the past year making bold claims about the role his outfit played in the election of Mr. Trump. The company, founded by Stephen K. Bannon and Robert Mercer, a wealthy Republican donor who has put at least $15 million into it, offered tools that it claimed could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior.So-called psychographic modeling techniques, which were built in part with the data harvested from Facebook, underpinned Cambridge Analytica’s work for the Trump campaign in 2016. Mr. Nix once called the practice “our secret sauce,” though some have questioned its effectiveness.But in recent days, the firm has found itself under increased scrutiny from lawmakers, regulators and prosecutors in the United States and Britain following reports in The New York Times and The Observer of London that the firm had harvested the Facebook data, and that it still had a copy of the information.The reports quickly put Mr. Nix in the cross hairs of a parliamentary committee investigating fake news and Russian interference in Britain’s referendum to exit the European Union. Earlier this month, he told the committee that Cambridge Analytica had never obtained or used Facebook data — a statement that the firm itself has contradicted in recent days.But it was Monday’s broadcast by Channel 4 News in Britain that appeared to push the board of Cambridge Analytica to move against Mr. Nix. Channel 4 spent months investigating the company, and sent a reporter to pose as a prospective client from Sri Lanka, secretly filming the encounters with Mr. Nix.The most damning footage was captured in January when Mr. Nix, sitting in a hotel bar in London, suggested the firm could send an attractive woman to seduce a rival candidate and secretly videotape the encounter, or send someone posing as a wealthy land developer to pass a bribe.“We have a long history of working behind the scenes,” Mr. Nix said.Inside Cambridge Analytica, Mr. Nix, the scion of a wealthy family who attended Eton College, the exclusive secondary school, had a reputation for lashing out at staff members, and for aggressively pursuing deals.Christopher Wylie, a data expert who worked at the firm in 2013 and 2014 and helped develop its voter-profiling technology, said in a recent interview that he kept memberships at a number of exclusive strip clubs near Pall Mall in London at the insistence of Mr. Nix, who often entertained clients from African and Caribbean countries there.“Why would I have these memberships?” said Mr. Wylie, who is gay. “I didn’t want them.”Channel 4 followed up Tuesday with a second part of its investigation that focused mainly on Mr. Nix’s claims that Cambridge Analytica played a pivotal role in the election of Mr. Trump — a claim that many inside the Trump campaign have disputed.The Channel 4 report also included allegations first reported by The Times this past weekend that Cambridge Analytica’s use of foreigners to work on election campaigns in the United States could have violated American election laws. (The Times did not work with Channel 4.)Announcing its chief executive’s suspension, Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that “in the view of the board, Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation.”The company said it had asked Alexander Tayler, its chief data officer, to serve as its acting chief executive. Mr. Tayler trained as a chemical engineer and joined Cambridge Analytica in 2014 as its lead data scientist, according to his LinkedIn profile.At the same time, the company said it was initiating an “independent investigation” of Mr. Nix’s comments and the allegations facing the firm.The company said it had hired a lawyer, Julian Malins, “to lead this investigation, the findings of which the board will share publicly in due course.”It added: “The board will be monitoring the situation closely, working closely with Dr. Tayler, to ensure that Cambridge Analytica, in all of its operations, represents the firm’s values and delivers the highest-quality service to its clients.”It was not immediately clear what impact Mr. Nix’s resignation would have on the SCL Group, the parent company of Cambridge Analytica. The companies were set up with a convoluted corporate structure, and their operations are deeply intertwined.Mr. Nix, for instance, holds dual appointments at the two companies. Cambridge Analytica is registered in Delaware and almost wholly owned by the Mercer family, but it is effectively a shell — it holds intellectual property rights to its psychographic modeling tools, yet its clients are served by the staff at London-based SCL and overseen by Mr. Nix, who is a British citizen.Neither the Mercer family nor Mr. Bannon has publicly commented since the reports in the Times and The Observer.Facebook, too, has sought to avoid the spotlight but also found itself under a similarly unwelcome glare. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission said on Tuesday that it had opened an investigation into whether Facebook violated an agreement with the agency on data privacy.In addition, Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general of New York, said the state was joining Massachusetts in an investigation into whether the company failed to protect the privacy of users in those states. Their attorneys general have demanded that Facebook hand over information about its interactions with Cambridge Analytica.“Consumers have a right to know how their information is used — and companies like Facebook have a fundamental responsibility to protect their users’ personal information,” Mr. Schneiderman said.In Britain, Damian Collins, the chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee of the House of Commons, which is running the inquiry into fake news, called on Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to give evidence to Parliament.In a letter, Mr. Collins said that previous answers from Facebook officials about the misuse of data had been “misleading.”“It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process,” the letter said, adding, “I hope that this representative will be you.”
British investigators on Friday night searched the London offices of Cambridge Analytica, the data-analytics company that harvested data from 50 million Facebook users to develop psychological profiles on behalf of political campaigns, including that of President Trump.About 20 investigators from Britain’s data watchdog, the Information Commissioner’s Office, descended on the company’s offices on New Oxford Street after obtaining a search warrant from the High Court.“We are pleased with the decision of the judge, and the warrant is now being executed,” the office of the information commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, said in a statement. “This is just one part of a larger investigation into the use of personal data and analytics for political purposes. As you will expect, we will now need to collect, assess and consider the evidence before coming to any conclusions.”Last Saturday, the same day The New York Times and The Observer of London published a detailed look at the company’s use of Facebook data, Ms. Denham’s office announced an investigation into “the circumstances in which Facebook data may have been illegally acquired and used.”The office said the inquiry would “consider how political parties and campaigns, data analytics companies and social media platforms in the U.K. are using and analyzing people’s personal information to micro target voters.”The police search carried out on Friday night had been expected. The revelations about the company’s data use have set off a storm on both sides of the Atlantic.European and American lawmakers have demanded an explanation of how the British consulting firm gained access to the Facebook data in 2014, and why Facebook failed to inform its users. The company’s stock has taken a hit, and some consumers have stopped using Facebook.The company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said on Wednesday that his company mishandled data and promised to do better.The Information Commissioner’s Office has described its investigation as “complex and far-reaching” and said that it would pursue criminal or civil enforcement vigorously.
NAIROBI — A data analytics firm at the center of a controversy over its  acquisition and use of personal Facebook data in the 2016 United States presidential election is under new scrutiny for its role in Kenya’s presidential election last year.Senior officials of Cambridge Analytica, whose parent company is the SCL Group, said in an undercover video by Channel 4 News of Britain that the company played a critical role in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s two campaigns, in 2013 and 2017.The revelations come only weeks after Mr. Kenyatta and his chief rival, Raila Odinga, reconciled after months of contention.In the video, Mark Turnbull, a Cambridge Analytica executive, said the company twice rebranded Mr. Kenyatta’s political party, wrote his campaign speeches and his political platform, and twice conducted surveys of 50,000 people to ascertain Kenyan voters’ hope and fears.A spokesman for Mr. Kenyatta referred inquiries to his party, the Jubilee Party, whose top official did not respond to messages seeking comment on Tuesday night.Mr. Kenyatta won re-election last October after two presidential votes. The first, in August, was nullified by the Supreme Court, which cited widespread irregularities and ordered a second election. Mr. Odinga pulled out of the second vote, which was held in October, saying the process was unfair.The acrimonious political season included divisive speech by both parties, observers said, and continued well past Mr. Kenyatta’s inauguration. The two archrivals shook hands and reconciled  this month.Moses Karanja, a researcher on a project at Strathmore Law School in Nairobi about social media and misinformation during the presidential election, said the recent reports about Cambridge Analytica’s role in Kenya, and its abuse of Facebook data globally, reinforced concerns raised in his own work about how Kenyans’ personal data was accessed by political parties and even by government institutions, like the elections commission.He said targeted text messages that he and others received during the campaign season suggested that individuals’ voter registration information, social media data and telephone numbers were being independently linked — although it’s still unclear how.“We don’t know how they accessed this data, or how it all ended up being linked to phone numbers and such,” Mr. Karanja said. “For me that’s scary. Those are questions those platforms should answer.”Gacheke Gachihi, who leads the Mathare Social Justice Center in Nairobi, said Cambridge Analytica’s branding for Mr. Kenyatta was “divisive propaganda,” raising ethnic enmity.“The way you paint your opponent, you paint also his supporters,” he said, “and you and your ethnic base will feel like, ‘This man is a devil.’ That undermines the work we are trying to do for social justice.”Local news media had reported last spring that Mr. Kenyatta’s party had retained Cambridge Analytica for his re-election campaign. And David Murathe, the vice chairman of the Jubilee Party, told Reuters on Tuesday that SCL helped the campaign with branding last year.Mr. Odinga’s party also enlisted a data-driven political consulting firm, but its on-the-ground team was deported from Kenya just a week before the election, according to The Los Angeles Times.On its website, Cambridge Analytica names Kenya as one of its political case studies, describing a 47,000-person survey it conducted in 2013 to identify Kenyan voters “real needs (jobs)” and “fears (tribal violence),” as well as their “preferred information channels.”The company also said it targeted youth voters with a social media campaign.Cambridge Analytica’s parent group, SCL, described similar activities on an archived page of its website, and said it also advised on communications, branding and strategy during the electoral period.Cambridge said its survey was “the largest political research project ever conducted in East Africa.” Mr. Turnbull told Channel 4’s undercover reporter that it repeated the survey in 2017.Those survey results, Mr. Karanja said, could reverberate beyond social media campaigns and “be translated into non-Internet platforms like radio, television advertisements and billboards.”He said his research team documented several examples of misinformation spreading on WhatsApp and other social media and filtering down to local talk radio shows or newspaper articles.
Cambridge Analytica, the political data firm that worked for both the Trump and pro-Brexit campaigns, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, above, amid furor over the access it gained to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users.Just to explain how powerful such data can be: Researchers have figured out how to tie interest you expressed on Facebook in, say, pop music to certain personality traits, such as how extroverted, conscientious or open-minded you are.Here’s more on the scandal and its fallout
The Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into whether Facebook violated an agreement with the agency on data privacy, reports Cecilia Kang of the NYT.The probe comes after reports that information on 50 million users was improperly obtained by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, according to a person with knowledge of the inquiry.The investigation, started in recent days, adds to the mounting pressureagainst Facebook in the United States and in the United Kingdom about its handling of the data. Cambridge Analytica used the information to help President Trump’s presidential campaign profile voters during the 2016 election.The F.T.C. and Facebook reached a settlement in 2011 after the agency accused the company of deceiving customers “by telling them they could keep their information on Facebook private, and then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public,” according to a statement at the time.Facebook could face fines of thousands of dollars a day per violation if the commission finds Facebook violated terms of the settlement, Bloomberg reports.Shares of Facebook are down 2.5 percent in early trading.Exhibit A: Its stock closed down nearly 7 percent, its worst performance in four years.Exhibit B: Its chief security officer, Alex Stamos, plans to leave after disagreements about how much the company should share about misuse of its platform. (He favored disclosure.)The overall problem: Reports about how the data firm Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested information from 50 million Facebook users are highlighting just how much governments itch to regulate the tech giant.And Facebook’s previous laissez-faire attitude toward data collection by apps has gone from feature to bug, Kevin Roose writes in his latest column.Peter Eavis’s take: Mark Zuckerberg’s unusually powerful position at the company may have played a role:More on Cambridge Analytica: An undercover investigation by Channel 4 News of Britain captured the firm’s C.E.O., Alexander Nix, suggesting the entrapment of a potential client’s political opponents with women and bribes. Britain’s information commissioner is now seeking a warrant to examine the firm’s data. And Facebook has hired a forensics firm to audit it.Critics’ corner• Jeff Goldfarb of Breakingviews writes, “Ten years ago, Zuckerberg hired Sheryl Sandberg to help turn his start-up into a serious corporation. It may be time for more adult supervision.”• The academic Zeynep Tufekci writes, “This wasn’t informed consent. This was the exploitation of user data and user trust.”• Cass Sunstein of Bloomberg View writes, “It would be a mistake to take the fiasco as a reason to keep treasure troves of information out of the hands of people who can provide immensely valuable services with it.”• Dan Gallagher of Heard on the Street writes, “Facebook’s immense scale also has made it virtually impossible for alternatives to catch on. That, in turn, makes abuse of the platform more urgent for lawmakers.”Public service announcements: How to protect yourself on Facebook.
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, on Wednesday publicly addressed for the first time the misuse of data belonging to 50 million users of the social network and described the steps the company would take to safeguard the information of its more than two billion monthly users.Although his statement addressing a chorus of criticism fell short of a full-throated apology, Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook would contact users whose data had been harvested through a personality quiz app and passed along to the political data firm Cambridge Analytica.“We have a responsibility to protect your data,” Mr. Zuckerberg said Wednesday in a Facebook post, “and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you.”Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, was trying to quell the crisis over the disclosure last weekend that Cambridge Analytica had used data that had been improperly obtained from Facebook as the firm worked on behalf of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign.“Are there other Cambridge Analyticas out there?” Mr. Zuckerberg said later in an interview with The New York Times. He added, “Were there apps which could have gotten access to more information and potentially sold it without us knowing or done something that violated people’s trust? We also need to make sure we get that under control.”Mr. Zuckerberg said the company would investigate apps like the third-party quiz app that had previously obtained access to “large amounts of information” from the social network. He also said the company would restrict third-party developers’ access.“We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it,” he wrote in his Facebook statement.The Cambridge Analytica revelations added to the questions that have been raised about Facebook’s handling of user data and security. Those questions have only intensified as the company has faced criticism over the role its platform played in Russian attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election and the way it has been used to spread misinformation on the internet.The resulting backlash is Facebook’s worst crisis since it was founded by Mr. Zuckerberg and others in 2004. The information, photos and other content that users post and their frequent engagement with the platform is crucial to the social network, and to the company’s profitability. Questions about user privacy and security threaten the company’s standing at a time when people are already uneasy about whether the use of technology can bring good or ill.Last Friday, after The New York Times, The Observer of London and Channel 4 in Britain told Facebook that Cambridge Analytica had not deleted all of the data it had obtained, the social network banned the political consulting firm and Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge University researcher who created the personality quiz app that was used to harvest user data.“This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote on Wednesday. “But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it.”Facebook representatives confirmed that Cambridge Analytica representatives met with Facebook on Tuesday to discuss lifting the ban. Mr. Zuckerberg told The Times he did not rule out allowing Cambridge Analytica back, saying Facebook must first conduct a “full forensic audit of the firm” and “have full confirmation that there’s no wrongdoing here.”The reaction to the Cambridge Analytica disclosure has been severe. Politicians in the United States and Britain have called for Mr. Zuckerberg to explain how his company handles user data, and state attorneys general in Massachusetts and New York have begun investigating Cambridge Analytica and Facebook. A #DeleteFacebook movement calling on people to close their accounts has also gathered steam.In Washington, there have been more calls for regulation of internet companies like Facebook. Mr. Zuckerberg’s troubles there were illustrated by the final passage on Wednesday of a bill to combat sex trafficking. The bill would lift liability protections that internet companies have enjoyed for content that users post on their platforms. Facebook and other internet giants had quietly fought the bill for more than a year, but eventually dropped their opposition.Lawmakers who have demanded that Mr. Zuckerberg testify before Congress about Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica were not appeased by his statement.“You need to come to Congress and testify to this under oath,” Senator Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, tweeted in response to Mr. Zuckerberg’s post.Independent researchers who have used data from Facebook said that Mr. Zuckerberg’s statement did not acknowledge how the gathering of user data was fundamental to the company’s operations.“He avoided the big issue, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy,” said Jonathan Albright, research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University. “There is no question that handing out that data made Facebook the success it is as a company. This has to be recognized as part of their business model and not just a one-off problem.”In his statement, Mr. Zuckerberg laid out a timeline of Facebook’s dealings with Cambridge Analytica. He traced the information-sharing issue to 2007, when Facebook decided to become an open platform — enabling people to use Facebook to log into other apps and share detailed personal information about themselves and their friends.In 2013, Mr. Kogan, the Cambridge researcher, created a personality quiz app that about 300,000 people installed, Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Because Facebook was an open platform, Mr. Kogan was able to collect data on tens of millions of friends of those users who had installed the personality quiz app.A year later, Mr. Zuckerberg said, Facebook changed its policy to limit how much data third-party apps could access. “These actions would prevent any app like Kogan’s from being able to access so much data today,” he wrote.By 2015, Mr. Kogan had shared his data and findings with Cambridge Analytica, which later used the material to single out American voters. Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook had banned Mr. Kogan’s app and demanded that the researcher and Cambridge Analytica formally certify that the data had been deleted. He did not address in his post why Facebook had not already disclosed those activities to its users whose data had been harvested by Mr. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica.“Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in the interview.For Mr. Zuckerberg, the outcry over Cambridge Analytica has been personally damaging. Inside Facebook, even his staunch supporters have described a tense atmosphere. Some employees have sought to transfer to other divisions, such as the messaging app WhatsApp and the photo-sharing platform Instagram, calling their work on Facebook’s main product “demoralizing.”Mr. Zuckerberg spent part of the past week hunkered down with a small group of engineers to discuss how to make information on Facebook’s users more secure, and to potentially give them more control of their data, according to two Facebook employees who declined to be named because the proceedings were confidential.His silence on the matter has prompted mounting criticism in the past few days. Facebook held a staff meeting on Tuesday to answer questions about Cambridge Analytica and the surrounding outcry, but Mr. Zuckerberg did not appear at the event. He was scheduled to appear at a staff meeting that was set for Friday.In his interview with The Times, Mr. Zuckerberg said that the company’s efforts to safeguard its platform from bad behavior — which includes preparing for possible interference attempts in the 2018 midterm elections — were an important part of a larger transformation at the company, which has had to adjust from its roots as a social network for college students into a powerful global information hub.“If you had asked me, when I got started with Facebook, if one of the central things I’d need to work on now is preventing governments from interfering in each other’s elections, there’s no way I thought that’s what I’d be doing if we talked in 2004 in my dorm room,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.
To the Editor:Re “Facebook’s Chief Admits Mistakes in Guarding Data” (front page, March 22): Bravo to Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, for apologizing for his mistake. “But that’s the least we can expect,” one might argue. Yes, it is, but it’s still a rare occurrence in business and elsewhere.“They’re still just words,” goes another objection. “He needs to back up his apology with a strategy for correcting his company’s mistakes.” Yes, he does. Nevertheless, it behooves us all to acknowledge Mr. Zuckerberg’s willingness to take responsibility for Facebook’s grave errors and to make sure they don’t happen again.The more we recognize a leader’s courage in being accountable, the more likely it is that accountability will be valued and cultivated.BRUCE WEINSTEIN, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Facebook claims “it’s free and always will be.” Recent events once again prove that if you don’t have to pay for a product, you are the product. Perhaps people might be willing to pay a small monthly fee for a more secure social network service that protects their data from companies like Cambridge Analytica.KAREN SMITH, BROOKLYNTo the Editor:Various Times articles over the past several days rightly focus on the misuse of private Facebook data by Cambridge Analytica on behalf of the Trump presidential campaign. However, a key point is not being mentioned: The formulas developed by Cambridge Analytica to explain and predict people’s personality traits and behaviors are most likely hogwash.For over 40 years I have worked for academic and public and private sector organizations as a specialist in personality assessment for the purpose of explaining and predicting behaviors.In all of my endeavors I have never achieved anything close to the level of explanatory and predictive robustness claimed by Cambridge Analytica, despite using an arsenal of data collected, with permission, from all job applicants.Therefore, in my opinion, Cambridge Analytica most likely “sold a bill of goods” to the Trump campaign, using mountains of correlation data. My advice to President Trump is to request a refund.PETER D. LIFTON, BOSTONThe writer is an adjunct faculty member at Northeastern University and the retired deputy chief of the C.I.A. Office of Medical Services Applicant Evaluation Division.To the Editor:We are now starting to learn about Cambridge Analytica and efforts by wealthy authoritarians around the world to combine thievery and technology to subvert democratic elections. These efforts allow the will of voters to be thwarted.Our country needs to look at its own unique vulnerability in presidential elections. In other countries, where the winner is the one with the most votes, cheaters have a much tougher time because they must target the entire country.Not so in the United States with our Electoral College. Here the bad actors must merely focus on a few swing states and shift a small number of votes. To protect future presidential elections from this kind of fraud, we need to get rid of the Electoral College. As a side effect, my vote in California for president will actually count for something.MIKE FANNING, SAN FRANCISCOTo the Editor:As part of his sincere apology for failing to block improper use of Facebook data to attempt to influence elections, Mark Zuckerberg should make hefty donations to help states safeguard voting systems. Words alone are both hollow and inadequate.MARCIA SCULLY, WHITTIER, CALIF.To the Editor:Re “Facebook’s Surveillance Machine” (Op-Ed, nytimes.com, March 19): Zeynep Tufekci writes, “Facebook even creates ‘shadow profiles’ of nonusers. That is, even if you are not on Facebook, the company may well have compiled a profile of you, inferred from data provided by your friends or from other data.”In other words, even though I quit Facebook years ago, Cambridge Analytica may have a “shadow profile” of me thanks to Facebook’s business model.Since I quit Facebook, I’ve had no trouble getting two new jobs, getting three new apartments, buying a car, getting engaged, meeting new people, or spending time with friends and family. Despite what others claim, Facebook is not an “essential” tool. Get it out of your life, before it ruins mine!JONATHAN CAREY, HOBOKEN, N.J.
LONDON — Two senior advisers to Prime Minister Theresa May might have conspired to bypass electoral spending laws when they were leading a campaign for Britain to leave the European Union, a former employee of their effort said this week, in an interview and in testimony he gave to the country’s elections regulator.The allegations led to a heated exchange, conducted in the British news media, involving allegations of hard feelings over an old romance and of the deliberate outing by the prime minister’s office, No. 10 Downing Street, of the former employee as gay.The former employee, Shahmir Sanni, said in the interview and in a witness statement submitted to the regulator, the Electoral Commission, that the two advisers had funneled more than $900,000 in campaign spending through a puppet organization that they had set up. They did so, he said, by paying the money to a digital advertising firm that was indirectly linked to the Trump campaign and also worked on the push to exit the European Union.Mr. Sanni volunteered at Vote Leave, the main campaign led in part by the two advisers to the prime minister, and then at the organization that he now says was a puppet, called BeLeave. He spoke with The New York Times for a joint reporting project with The Observer of Britain.The allegations are the latest of many raised on both sides of the referendum about the possible diversion of money through allied organizations to get around funding limits on each of them, and campaign finance experts said the multitude of such claims pointed to holes and ambiguities in the regulations that governed the referendum.In response, one of the two Downing Street advisers, Stephen Parkinson, said that Vote Leave had adhered to all relevant laws. Mr. Parkinson also suggested that Mr. Sanni was lashing out because the two had “dated for 18 months, before splitting up — I thought amicably — in September 2017.”He said he had not spoken to Mr. Sanni as a supervisor from the Vote Leave campaign, but as a friend. “That is the capacity in which I gave Shahmir advice and encouragement, and I can understand if the lines became blurred for him,” Mr. Parkinson said in the statement, “but I am clear that I did not direct the activities of any separate campaign groups.”The other adviser, Cleo Watson, could not be reached for comment.Mr. Sanni said his relationship with Mr. Parkinson had been a short fling that started after the referendum. In a statement, he said the disclosure of his sexual orientation had endangered his family, who live in Pakistan, and he accused Mr. Parkinson of intimidation.“I never imagined that he, with the help of No. 10, would choose to tell the world I am gay, in a last, desperate attempt to scare me,” Mr. Sanni said.His lawyer, Tamsin Allen, said in a statement, “We believe this is the first time a Downing Street official statement has been used to out someone.”British campaign finance experts said the allegations about Vote Leave underscored the porousness and ineffectiveness of rules on spending around referendums like the vote in 2016 to exit the European Union.“They were useless,” said Justin Fisher, a professor of political science at Brunel University London who has studied the regulations for the Electoral Commission, which oversees elections and regulates political finance in Britain.Multiple organizations, each with its own spending limit, were allowed to campaign in parallel on either side of the referendum issue, and they were allowed to work together in ill-defined ways, allowing donors on either side many ways to sidestep spending limits, Mr. Fisher noted.The rules “had never really been tested before because we never had a referendum of any consequence before,” Mr. Fisher said, noting that in total the supporters of remaining in the European Union had outspent the advocates of leaving.Mr. Sanni’s allegations have come to light because of a tangle of connections to an online consulting company with ties to the campaign that elected President Trump — Cambridge Analytica.Mr. Sanni is friends with Christopher Wylie, a former research director of Cambridge Analytica who has recently provided information to journalists indicating that the company improperly obtained  the data of 50 million Facebook users in order to help target voters.The Vote Leave campaign relied heavily for online ad placement on a Canadian company called AggregateIQ, which according to documents and testimony submitted to the Electoral Commission by Mr. Wylie was a satellite business set up to support Cambridge Analytica.Public filings also show that Vote Leave provided virtually the entire $990,000 budget of BeLeave — 625,000 pounds — which took the form of additional spending paid directly to AggregateIQ.As Mr. Wylie was coming forward with his disclosures about Cambridge Analytica, he encouraged his friend Mr. Sanni to come forward with his claims about Vote Leave and BeLeave as well.Testimony and documents provided by Mr. Wylie in his filing to the Electoral Commission show that AggregateIQ was founded in 2013 in discussion with executives at Cambridge Analytica’s parent company, initially licensed all its software from that company, and for a time received virtually all its income from the company.In a statement this week, Jeff Silvester, one of the founders of AggregateIQ, said it was a “digital advertising, web and software development company” and “has never managed, nor did we ever have access to, any Facebook data or database allegedly obtained improperly by Cambridge Analytica.”Mr. Silvester did not address the company’s work for Vote Leave and BeLeave. A spokesman for Cambridge Analytica did not respond to a request for comment.An initial investigation by the Electoral Commission found nothing improper in the relationship between the two organizations, but a court appeal last fall prompted the commission to reopen its inquiry. Mr. Sanni’s testimony is additional information recently submitted to that ongoing inquiry.He and Mr. Wylie also gave the commission records showing that anyone at Vote Leave continued to have access to the Google Drive used for BeLeave’s strategy, planning and internal discussion after the referendum, on June 23, 2016.Mr. Sanni graduated from the University of East Anglia at the end of 2015, and began volunteering the next March for the Vote Leave campaign. He worked with a small team of young volunteers in what was then a unit of Vote Leave called BeLeave that tried to craft messages to turn young and liberal people against the European Union by arguing, for example, that it closed doors to the non-European world.The small BeLeave team initially worked in the same office as Vote Leave and under the oversight of its senior staff, including Mr. Parkinson and Ms. Watson, as did two AggregateIQ employees managing the campaign’s online advertising, Mr. Sanni testified to the commission.By mid-May, however, with the referendum little more than a month away, the Vote Leave campaign was nearing its spending cap.At about the same time, the leaders of the Vote Leave campaign instructed their lawyers to draw up a charter for BeLeave to become an independent group. Mr. Sanni was named its secretary and research director while another friend, Darren Grimes, was named its principal and campaign director.Mr. Sanni told the commission he was surprised to learn that the leaders of Vote Leave had also decided to direct $900,000 to BeLeave, given that it was overseen by two unpaid, inexperienced people: He and Mr. Grimes were then both 22. But then his friend Mr. Grimes explained that virtually all of that money would be paid directly to AggregateIQ for online advertising.In practice, Mr. Sanni said, nothing changed. The BeLeave staff continued to work inside the Vote Leave office. The senior officials of Vote Leave continued to approve their messages. And the same AggregateIQ workers continued to place BeLeave’s online advertisements while providing the same service to Vote Leave.“We never saw ourselves as a separate organization from the get-go,” Mr. Sanni said in an interview, echoing his testimony. “We were just volunteers.”The money paid to AggregateIQ for online advertising produced few results for BeLeave — 1,164 email sign-ups and 1,005 mobile phone numbers for more than $900,000 — leading Mr. Sanni to suspect the money may have gone to promote the larger Vote Leave campaign instead.He insisted in the interview that the reason he provided testimony to the commission was not about any past feelings for Mr. Parkinson, now at No. 10.Instead, he said, it was out of concern for Mr. Grimes, the other young volunteer. By making Mr. Grimes the nominal owner of BeLeave, the leaders of Vote Leave had made him a target of critical news coverage and potential legal claims, Mr. Sanni argued. “He is getting thrown to the dogs,” Mr. Sanni said. “Everything I am doing is to protect Darren.”“I now feel sick about what happened,” Mr. Sanni said in his testimony. The officials of Vote Leave “used two 22-year-olds to cheat in the referendum.”Mr. Grimes did not respond to messages seeking comment.
WASHINGTON — The political action committee founded by John R. Bolton, President Trump’s incoming national security adviser, was one of the earliest customers of Cambridge Analytica, which it hired specifically to develop psychological profiles of voters with data harvested from tens of millions of Facebook profiles, according to former Cambridge employees and company documents.Mr. Bolton’s political committee, known as The John Bolton Super PAC, first hired Cambridge in August 2014, months after the political data firm was founded and while it was still harvesting the Facebook data.In the two years that followed, Mr. Bolton’s super PAC spent nearly $1.2 million primarily for “survey research,” which is a term that campaigns use for polling, according to campaign finance records.But the contract between the political action committee and Cambridge, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, offers more detail on just what Mr. Bolton was buying. The contract broadly describes the services to be delivered by Cambridge as “behavioral microtargeting with psychographic messaging.”To do that work, Cambridge used Facebook data, according to the documents and two former employees familiar with the work.“The data and modeling Bolton’s PAC received was derived from the Facebook data,” said Christopher Wylie, a data expert who was part of the team that founded Cambridge Analytica. “We definitely told them about how we were doing it. We talked about it in conference calls, in meetings.”Cambridge Analytica, which rose to prominence through its work with Mr. Trump’s 2016 election campaign, has found itself confronting a deepening crisis since reports this past weekend in The New York Times and The Observer of London that the firm had harvested the data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles in its bid to develop techniques for predicting the behavior of individual American voters.Cambridge’s so-called psychographic modeling techniques, which were built in part with the data harvested from Facebook, underpinned its work for Mr. Trump’s campaign in 2016, setting off a furious — and still unsettled — debate about whether the firm’s technology worked. The same techniques were also the focus of its work for Mr. Bolton’s super PAC.“The Bolton PAC was obsessed with how America was becoming limp wristed and spineless and it wanted research and messaging for national security issues,” Mr. Wylie said.“That really meant making people more militaristic in their worldview,” he added. “That’s what they said they wanted, anyway.”Using the psychographic models, Cambridge helped design concepts for advertisements for candidates supported by Mr. Bolton’s PAC, including the 2014 campaign of Thom Tillis, the Republican senator from North Carolina, according to Mr. Wylie and another former employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid being dragged into the investigations that now appear to be engulfing Cambridge.One advertisement, a video that was posted on YouTube, was aimed at people who scored high for conscientiousness, and were thought to respect hard work and experience. It emphasized Mr. Bolton’s time working for Ronald Reagan and how Mr. Tillis embodied the spirit and political ethos of the late president.Beyond their conservative politics, Mr. Trump, Mr. Bolton and Cambridge Analytica all share a patron — the Mercer family of Long Island, whose patriarch, Robert L. Mercer, made a fortune at the helm of a top-yielding hedge fund.Cambridge Analytica, which grew out of the London-based SCL Group, was founded in 2014 with a $15 million investment from Mr. Mercer, whose daughter Rebekah sits on the firm’s board of directors. Stephen K. Bannon was also a co-founder.At the same time, Mr. Mercer was financially supporting Mr. Bolton’s PAC, donating $5 million between April 2014 and September 2016, according to Federal Election Commission filings. The Mercers also backed Mr. Trump in the presidential election.The Mercer family has not publicly commented since the reports about the misuse of Facebook data by Cambridge first surfaced in The Times and The Observer.The reports have prompted calls from lawmakers in Britain and the United States for renewed scrutiny of Facebook, and at least two American state prosecutors have said they are looking into the misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica.The company also suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after a television broadcast this week in which he was recorded suggesting that the company had used seduction and bribery to entrap politicians and influence foreign elections.But it is the harvesting of Facebook data that has cast the harshest spotlight on Cambridge, and Mr. Bolton’s experience with the company appears to have provided a model for how it sold itself to future political campaigns, including Mr. Trump’s.The firm took the psychographic profiles it was building off the Facebook data at the time and combined them with voter databases and other sets of data. Staff from SCL’s elections division, which through a convoluted corporate structure was interchangeable with Cambridge, discussed what they were doing at a meeting in July 2014 with another contractor for the Bolton PAC, according to an agenda of the meeting obtained by The Times.The profiles would be used to “identify the personality traits of individuals” in states to be targeted by the Bolton PAC, said the agenda, which was prepared for SCL and Cambridge staff. “Individuals can be targeted with the right message,” it said.The agenda also included a line, in boldfaced text, that said SCL wanted to use voter contact lists available to Bolton’s campaign to direct people “toward the FB app.” Cambridge, working through an outside researcher, used a Facebook app to harvest data from the social network’s profiles. The app claimed to be collecting data for academic research, and users were not aware of its true purpose.Months later, the relationship between Cambridge and the Bolton PAC had grown so close that the firm was writing up talking points for Mr. Bolton. In an email dated Oct. 1, 2014, Cambridge staff outlined a few sentences that Mr. Bolton could use to describe the work the new firm was doing for his super PAC.“It’s not just about how much you spend. It’s also about how smart you spend,” the email advised Mr. Bolton to say.“One way we’re doing that is by enlisting an outside firm” — Cambridge Analytica — “to provide deepdive research into who makes up our audience of target voters,” it continued. “We are producing ads specifically designed for voters of a certain personality and demographic profile. So if you’re a young woman in New Hampshire with a specific kind of personality and a particular set of issues that you care about, our research allows us to connect with that voter in a way that truly resonates with her.”The subject line of the email: “Did Bannon come back to you on this?
Facebook is once again struggling with revelations that manipulative characters exploited the vulnerabilities of its platform during the 2016 election to put Donald Trump in the White House. The company said last week that it was suspending the accounts of Cambridge Analytica, a company that worked for the Trump campaign, and a professor, Aleksandr Kogan, who is said to have deceptively amassed information from more than 50 million people without their consent. That may sound like decisive action, but it came more than two years after Facebook learned of the problem.Starting in 2014, Mr. Kogan got the data, using a quiz app, under the guise of academic research. He handed the information to Cambridge Analytica, which used it to build profiles of voters’ personalities, according to reports in The New York Times and The Observer of London on Saturday.What is particularly disturbing about this case is that Facebook has not yet identified and alerted users whose profile information was vacuumed up by the app, most of whom had never used it but were friends with somebody else who had. Further, Facebook did not verify that Cambridge Analytica and Mr. Kogan deleted the data after the social media company told them to in 2015. The Times reported that Cambridge still had most or all of the data.Facebook’s response so far is reminiscent of its slow, defensive reaction to the spread of pro-Trump fake news on its platform during the 2016 presidential campaign. Days after the election, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said it was a “pretty crazy idea” to suggest that fake news had influenced the outcome. It took months for him to admit that he was wrong to so cavalierly dismiss the importance of hoaxes spread on Facebook, many of them by people working on behalf of the Russian government.It is hard to know just how useful the profile information from Facebook was in Cambridge’s effort to help elect Mr. Trump. The company has offered contradictory statements about its use of what’s called “psychographic data” for the campaign, which included targeting political messages to voters receptive to them. The trove contained enough details about roughly 30 million people, including where they lived, that the company was able to build detailed profiles by linking the data to other sources of information.Officials in the United States and the European Union are investigating Cambridge Analytica, and others say they might, including members of Congress and the attorney general of Massachusetts, Maura Healey. In Britain, regulators and lawmakers are looking at whether the company tried to illegally influence the “Brexit” referendum of 2016.More investigations may be on the way. On Monday, Channel 4 News in Britain released hidden-camera tapes in which Cambridge executives said that their company used bribes and prostitutes to entrap politicians. The company denies engaging in corruption and extortion. Robert Mercer, the hedge fund billionaire who is a big supporter of Mr. Trump, owns a controlling stake in Cambridge, and Stephen Bannon, the former chief strategist for the president, is a former company board member.Lawmakers and regulators also ought to investigate Facebook’s response. For starters, they need to take a close look at whether the company is in violation of a 2011 consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission, which had accused it of deceiving users by telling them their information would be kept private and then allowing it to be shared and made public. They also need to force the company to quickly identify and alert the tens of millions of people whose information might have been disclosed to Cambridge.In the longer term, Congress clearly needs to strengthen privacy laws to give people more control over private information and prevent businesses and political campaigns from harvesting personal data under false pretenses. President Barack Obama proposed a privacy bill of rights in 2012, but the idea died in Congress after technology and advertising companies claimed it would be an unfair burden.Facebook says it takes this case seriously. But it is clear that lawmakers cannot rely on the company to police itself.
