Jack Gerber of South Africa is the oldest man to start the 24 Hours of Le Mans endurance race. On June 22, 2013, he was 68 years and 110 days old, racing for the AF Corse team. When he came in third in his class, he also became Le Mans’s oldest podium finisher.Gerber is an outlier, of course; few people that age achieve international racing success. But drivers in endurance racing, of which the Le Mans 24-hour race is the crown jewel, have far longer careers than in series like Formula One.Endurance racing is no less physically demanding than Formula One, and drivers in both categories experience high G-forces while cornering because of the downforce generated by each type of car. The flagship LMP1 category (Le Mans Prototype 1) sees cars reaching speeds over 220 miles an hour, about 10 percent slower than a Formula One car.Where Formula One is a sprint event, with about 20 two-hour races per year, the World Endurance Championship (W.E.C.) is a series of marathons, with a season of eight six-hour races and the 24 hour Le Mans showpiece.Both categories demand stamina, aerobic fitness, core strength and mental acuity, but drivers traditionally retire in their mid-30s from Formula One, while the other series embraces age as fundamental to experience.At Le Mans, age and experience are key for cars and drivers, and are used to help categorize man and machine. While a Grand Prix will see similar cars built to the same formula of regulations and with comparable power and speeds, endurance racing embraces a variety of classes of car, with members of each category competing among themselves — races within the race.The headline fight is in the LMP1 class, a big-budget battle of varying power philosophies and design between Toyota and Porsche, while in LMP2 the mandated engine type reduces costs and opens the field to a range of entrants not affiliated with a manufacturer. The GT, or Grand Tourer, categories are divided into pro- and am classes, and it is here that the likes of Ford, Aston Martin and Ferrari enter their sports cars.Drivers are similarly classified, with professionals and amateurs sharing track time in the same car. Endurance races typically see several drivers sharing driving duties, each responsible for a stint or stints behind the wheel. Amateur drivers, often called gentlemen drivers, will often finance smaller teams, working alongside a professional racer and improving their skills.To ensure that these gentlemen drivers were given seat time in the teams they funded, rules were introduced limiting the number of professional drivers allowed in certain classes. This has created an environment in which it is in the interests of teams to open up their cars to wealthy and passionate amateurs, and has had the side effect of increasing the age range of Le Mans entrants.But the career longevity of endurance racing, which takes a long-term view of its drivers not found in Formula One, is not restricted to the amateur racers. Mark Webber had a long career driving for the Red Bull Racing grand prix team, and then drove for Porsche in the W.E.C. after his Formula One career was over.“Formula One’s a bit more cutthroat,” Webber said. “If you’re two-tenths off for a few years, then it’s all over. In sports cars you can drive for a lot longer. It’s more team-orientated. It’s less individual than Formula One.“The manufacturers believe that when you invest in someone in sports car racing, that investment, sometimes it’s a bit of a slow burn to get the investment back as an individual, as a driver, culturally, how they settle in the team; all of these things. It’s an investment you have to lay down. There is no patience for that in F1. Zero.”That lack of patience has seen the W.E.C. field find room for many former Formula One drivers, those who have retired in their mid-30s and those who lost their seats.One driver who went the other way is André Lotterer, a three-time Le Mans winner who briefly raced for the Caterham F1 team in 2014, 12 years after an unsuccessful test with the Jaguar Formula One team.“You have to be a big team player, put your ego on the side,” Lotterer said of the W.E.C. “In F1, it’s like war against everyone. Here you have to be mates with your three drivers. You don’t have to try to beat them. You work together and develop the car. You have to be a brand ambassador as well. There are a lot of boxes to tick, and I don’t think you find them so easily. It takes time to develop them.“I think it’s not easy for top manufacturers to find drivers that tick off all the boxes. Endurance, at the moment, you have to do sprint with zero mistakes. Le Mans is one race. It’s not like a Formula One championship where you have 20 races.”Andreas Seidl, team principal of the Porsche LMP1 team, is aware that for some drivers, the W.E.C. is a Plan B when Formula One is out of reach.“It depends on the options the drivers have,” Seidl said. “Formula One, it’s the pinnacle for drivers, no question. But once — or depending on how — their careers go, the business we are doing is obviously coming straight after F1 for these guys. It’s a very attractive championship, very attractive cars, highly complex cars, a very competitive grid. That makes it attractive for them.”José María López, a former star of the World Touring Car Championship and a current Toyota LMP1 driver, looked beyond the Formula One dream.“I don’t think it’s about having a longer career,” López said. “It’s just about knowing that there is life after Formula One. Everything for a driver is Formula One, and it was for me. At one time it was an objective and a dream.” But he said he is sure he enjoys the W.E.C. much more now than he probably would have enjoyed being in Formula One.“There is always an option,” he said. “Life is not finished when Formula One is finished. There are still many series, many very nice cars to drive.”Graeme Lowdon, former sporting director of the Manor Racing Formula One team and now head of the CEFC Manor TRS Racing team in LMP2, says the two disciplines require different skills.“Inside the cockpit in endurance racing, experience is really quite important,” he said. “It is such a challenge, in particular the long endurance races — Le Mans, for example — it really is something else. It is the greatest challenge going for teams and drivers as a one-off race. There’s nothing else quite like it.“From a team point of view, what we try and do is put together a positive mix of experience and speed. We have tried to do things a little bit differently and have brought a lot of ex-F1 drivers” into the W.E.C. in the last season and a half.”“We’re used to dealing with those sort of drivers, and we’re used to dealing with the strengths and the weaknesses,” Lowdon said. “It’s so different from single-seaters and requires a different skill set altogether.”Karun Chandhok, a former Formula One driver, has some experience of endurance racing. For him, career longevity in sports-car racing is simple: It’s a numbers game.“The turnover rate in Formula One is so high, and there’s an excess of supply rather than demand,” Chandhok said. “You’ve got so many drivers coming through from GP2, from GP3 and F3. There are only 20 seats. There are less and less seats available.”He said there were more seats available in endurance racing, so drivers are able to prolong their careers.“In sports car racing, there’s a much bigger pool and opportunity, and therefore you can prolong your career,” Chandhok said. “It’s quite simple: There’s just more availability of seats.”This year, the youngest driver on the Le Mans grid will be 17-year-old Phillip Hanson, who will share driving duties with Chandhok and Nigel Moore for Tockwith Motorsports’ Ligier JSP217 in the LMP2 class.The oldest driver this year is 65-year-old Mark Patterson. So even if he wins, Gerber’s records are safe.