NEW YORK —  The Latest on reports that millions of Facebook users' data was used to target political ads (all times local):3:30 p.m.Cook County is suing Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users.The lawsuit filed Friday in Cook County Circuit Court alleges Trump-affiliated political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica deceived the millions of Illinois Facebook users whose information it collected. It says Facebook failed to protect its users' privacy and misrepresented how their data would be used.London-based Cambridge Analytica has been accused of using Facebook data to influence voter behavior in U.S. elections.The Chicago Tribune reports the lawsuit filed by Cook County State's Attorney Kimberly Foxx on behalf of Illinois residents brings one consumer fraud count each against Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. It seeks $50,000 fines for each violation of the law.Neither company has commented on the lawsuit.___2:20 p.m.The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy.Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected, retained and distributed for commercial use. He says the hearing also will examine what steps companies like Facebook can do to better protect personal information.Grassley's committee is the third congressional panel to seek Zuckerberg's testimony in the wake of a privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-connected data-mining company.Several Judiciary Committee members had pressed Grassley to hold the hearing.Grassley says he's also invited Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey.___12:15 p.m.The chief law enforcement officers for 37 U.S. states and territories are demanding to know when Facebook learned of a huge breach of privacy protections.The officers say in a letter Monday to CEO Mark Zuckerberg that users' trust in the social media platform is "broken."The attorneys general are asking how Facebook monitored what these developers did with all the data they collected and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to more easily control the privacy of their accounts.Cambridge Analytica, a political data-mining firm, is accused of lifting data from some 50 million Facebook users to influence voters in U.S. elections.___11:55 a.m.Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook, following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data.Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected.She added that "promises aren't enough, though. We will need to monitor companies such as Facebook much more strictly in future and also punish breaches of data protection strongly, swiftly and painfully."Barley said Facebook reacted "favorably" to her demand for greater transparency about the algorithms that underpin the company's data collection.She said campaigns such as "Delete Facebook" would likely make a strong impression on the company because "in the end the currency that Facebook works with is trust."___10:50 a.m.The Federal Trade Commission is investigating Facebook's privacy practices following a week of privacy scandals including whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers.Facebook's stock, which already took a big hit last week, plunged as a result.Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions.News outlets have reported on the FTC investigation last week, but the FTC hadn't confirmed it until Monday. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances.___5 a.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is promising to do a better job protecting user data following reports that a political consultant misused the personal information of millions of the company's subscribers. The fact is, European regulators are already forcing him to do so.A similar data breach in the future could make Facebook liable for fines of more than $1.6 billion under the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation, which will be enforced from May 25. The rules, approved two years ago, also make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data and apply to any company that uses the data of EU residents, no matter where it is based.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Monday it would expand its local news push beyond the United States to provide users with more stories from local sources covering their current cities and other cities of interest.In January, Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg had announced the changes that first rolled out in the United States and would expand to a global audience.The changes come amid allegations that the British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to Facebook users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.Facebook also faces criticism that its algorithms may have prioritized misleading news in people's feeds.(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr)
LONDON —  A whistleblower at the heart of a Facebook data scandal on Monday questioned the result of Britain's 2016 Brexit referendum as his lawyers presented evidence that they said showed the main campaign for leaving the EU had broken the law.With just a year until Britain is due to leave the European Union, two whistleblowers - one from the British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica and one from the Vote Leave group - have alleged that Brexit campaigners funded their campaign illegally.By doing so, they have pulled Brexit into a scandal that has forced Mark Zuckerberg to apologise for how Facebook handled users' data, and raised questions about how Donald Trump's 2016 campaign employed data.Vote Leave officials on Monday denied breaking election rules and said they were facing an attempt to undermine Brexit by smearing their reputations.The whistleblowers' law firm, London-based Bindmans, released 53 pages of selected evidence on Monday.In a legal opinion, Bindmans said there was a prima facie case that Vote Leave broke election spending limits by donating to an allied group known as BeLeave, with which it was working closely."Can we be confident in the result of the referendum?" said whistleblower Christopher Wylie, formerly of Cambridge Analytica. "This is not refighting the referendum. This is about the integrity of the democratic process.""If this country is on the path of an irreversible decision, we really should be confident that the basis of that decision came from a free and fair vote - and what this evidence does is it calls into question whether it was free and fair."Reuters was unable to verify the allegations made against Vote Leave. Matthew Elliott, its former CEO, said the allegations were wrong."Vote Leave did not break the law," Elliott told Reuters. "Voters can be confident this was a free and fair referendum."Elliott said the Electoral Commission had twice looked into Vote Leave's relationship with BeLeave and had given it a clean bill of health both times. He said he was confident that the third investigation would produce the same result."The basis of all this is an attempt by people on the 'Remain' campaign to call into doubt the result of the EU referendum," Elliott said.(Reporting by Alistair Smout, writing by Guy Faulconbridge; Editing by Kevin Liffey)
NEW YORK —  U.S. regulators and state attorneys general are increasing pressure on Facebook as they probe whether the company's data-collection practices have hurt the people who use its services.The Federal Trade Commission confirmed news reports on Monday that it was investigating the company. Separately, the attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after revelations that a Trump-affiliated consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, got data on millions of Facebook users. That included information on friends of people who had downloaded a psychological quiz app, even though those friends hadn't given explicit consent to sharing.Facebook is also facing questions about reports that it collected years of contact names, telephone numbers, call lengths and information about text messages from Android users. Facebook says the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others. But the company did not spell out exactly what it used the data for or why it needed it.European officials also have also been investigating or seeking more information. Germany's justice minister said Monday that she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook after a meeting with its executives about the abuse of users' data. Last week, a U.K. parliamentary media committee summoned CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about how Facebook uses data, while U.K. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating how Cambridge Analytica got the data.In addition, the state's attorney of Cook County in Illinois has sued Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for consumer fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users. Facebook has not commented on the lawsuit.The recent troubles follow Facebook's most difficult year yet, as the company dealt with fake news, "filter bubbles" that lead to increasing polarization, and congressional hearings over Russian agents' alleged use of social media to meddle with the 2016 presidential elections.In January, Zuckerberg set fixing Facebook as his personal challenge for 2018. Nearly three months in, it's a taller order than ever.Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data.Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions.Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, believes Facebook was in violation of the 2011 settlement in letting Cambridge Analytica harvest data on friends of Facebook users. He called the investigation "good news.""This is what Facebook was doing 10 years ago that people objected to, what the FTC should have stopped in 2011," Rotenberg said. "It makes zero sense that when a person downloads their apps, they have the ability to transfer the data of their friends."Although Zuckerberg talked about changes in 2014 that would have prevented this, Rotenberg said it should have been banned already under the 2011 consent decree. He said the FTC had dropped the ball in failing to enforce that.Meanwhile, state attorneys general asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily."Facebook has made promises about users' privacy in the past, and we need to know that users can trust Facebook," they wrote. "With the information we have now, our trust has been broken."In a statement, Facebook's vice president for state and local public policy, Will Castleberry, said the attorneys general "have raised important questions and we appreciate their interest. Our internal review of the situation continues and we look forward to responding."Facebook's stock, which already took a big hit last week, fell Monday after the FTC announcement but recovered by the end of the day. With Monday's close at $160.06, the stock is down almost 14 percent since March 16, when the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.___Selsky reported from Salem, Oregon. AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun contributed to this story.
As questions mounted last year about whether Facebook had been exploited to tilt the U.S. presidential election, Mark Zuckerberg's to-do list landed him on a fishing trawler off Alabama's Gulf coast.But the chatter surrounding the CEO's arrival in port was that it signaled something bigger than just the start of a 30-state personal tour: his designs on a job even more powerful than leading the social network that links 2.2 billion people worldwide."It was one of the last things I asked him, thinking it would put a smile on his face — and it did," said Dominick Ficarino, who owns a shrimp business in Bayou La Batre, Alabama, and hosted a dockside lunch for Zuckerberg that Sunday afternoon."I asked him if he was interested in running for president of the United States. And his answer to me was: 'Can I answer you with a question? If you were me, would you?'"Thirteen months later, Zuckerberg no longer has the luxury of mulling a hypothetical next act. Instead, he is grappling with a crisis that has enveloped the company synonymous with his face and name. It does not help that the most glaring reminder of Facebook's flaws is the unabated uproar over the American presidency itself."The world feels anxious and divided, and Facebook has a lot of work to do," Zuckerberg wrote in January, laying out the "personal challenge" that he sets for himself each year.In 2017, the billionaire challenged himself to travel to every state he'd never visited. This year, long after critics began demanding an overhaul, Zuckerberg said his personal goal is to "fix" the platform that he has engineered to build community — but that is increasingly blamed for warping it.Yet things continue to get worse. Scrutiny of Facebook has intensified following reports that it failed to prevent the data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica from amassing personal information about millions of users — possibly used to aid Donald Trump's campaign — and that the social network has been collecting Android users' phone call and text message histories without notice. That adds to criticism that Facebook manipulates its users and has allowed Russian bots to divide Americans by spreading false information.On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission announced it was investigating Facebook for its privacy practices.Throughout the mounting crisis, Zuckerberg's response has been a study in contradictions. He crisscrossed the country, even as his company back home came under increasing fire. He preaches transparency, but flinches at questioning and craves privacy. He is undeniably brilliant, but stubborn in his reluctance to acknowledge the extent of Facebook's problems.Even his critics say he is uniquely capable of righting the ship. But at 33, is he prepared to do all it will take?"If he fails to do it, it may take a while but eventually people are going to rebel," said Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor and adviser who has become one of the company's most pointed critics."I thought Facebook was a force for good in the world for a really long time," McNamee said. "I think it's really hard to make that case today."___Days after Trump's election, Zuckerberg was pressed on the possibility that foreign agents had used his social network to divide voters."The idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way, I think, is a pretty crazy idea," the CEO told the audience at a California technology conference."I think all of us were shocked to learn how wrong he was," said David Kirkpatrick, the author of a 2010 book about Facebook who questioned Zuckerberg that day. "You can certainly say that he was culpable, in that he was naive and inattentive to what was happening in his system. But I don't think he was lying."Zuckerberg walked back the remark soon after, continuing a years-long routine of self-correction. But errors that reflect his stubbornness, those who know him say, are tempered by an eagerness to learn from mistakes and a deep sense of reflection.Donald Graham, the former chairman of the Washington Post Co., recalled that when he met Zuckerberg in 2005, outsiders still weren't sure what to make of Facebook."I would ask him a question and he would pause long enough — 15 seconds, 20 seconds — that I would think 'Did I insult him? Did he not hear me?'" said Graham, who went on to serve on the company's board from 2008 to 2015."Since I am from Washington, I'm not used to people thinking before they are answering a question. ... But Mark, then as now, was thinking about the right answer."Zuckerberg's boyish appearance, even today, is a reminder of just how young he was when he created what would become the world's biggest social network, back in his dorm room at Harvard."I didn't know anything about building a company or global internet service," he wrote in January. "Over the years I've made almost every mistake you can imagine."Naomi Gleit, Facebook's longest-serving employee after the CEO, said Zuckerberg — who declined an interview request from The Associated Press — has been talking about making the world a better place since he was 21. But his view of that world and his place in it "seemed almost like a gravity, a burden of responsibility," she said.That seriousness coincides with a sense of certainty.Gleit recalled Zuckerberg's steadfast attachment to a Facebook message service similar to email, even as more people began using phones to send text messages. But co-workers eventually swayed the CEO, who she described as a "learn-it-all." That change-of-mind informed Facebook's 2014 purchase of the WhatsApp messaging service for $19 billion."I think he would even say now that he was initially wrong," Gleit said.With Zuckerberg, "its experiment, learn, experiment, learn," said LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who has known him since 2004. Hoffman said that is evident in Zuckerberg's enthusiasm for software, which can be overwritten to fix problems. That facility, he said, makes Zuckerberg the equal of executives with far more experience.But in the process of learning, Zuckerberg's inexperience has sometimes played out in public view.___In 2010, Zuckerberg announced on Oprah Winfrey's television show that he would donate $100 million to schools in Newark, New Jersey.Critics labeled it an attempt to polish his image, just as the biopic "The Social Network" was being released. Still, there was little questioning his generosity. The problem was that Zuckerberg — who knew little about education — made the gift with few specifics outlining how it should be spent."He was just a very young, naive, inexperienced guy who was brilliant at technology and computers and the internet, but just really didn't know much about how the world worked," said Dale Russakoff, author of "The Prize," a book chronicling how the money went to high-priced consultants, with minimal effort by leaders to build community support.By the end of the process, Zuckerberg had developed a clearer understanding of how to get things done. He and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, have since chartered their own foundation and structured it to take on mammoth goals, like a $3 billion investment to cure, prevent or manage all diseases. He has pledged to donate 99 percent of his Facebook stock to philanthropy."Zuck's maturation has occurred in front of the public," said Kirkpatrick, author of "The Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company that Is Connecting the World." ''But he also still lives with the consequences of the decisions he made when he was less mature."At Facebook, Zuckerberg has grown increasingly bold in using huge sums of money to pursue corporate goals, which includes purchasing competitors — or companies that could grow into competitors.Facebook's $1 billion purchase of Instagram in 2012 — then unprofitable and little-known — came as a shock to Wall Street. Two years later came the multibillion-dollar deal to buy WhatsApp, a company that remains unprofitable but has given Facebook a prime portal into developing countries and other regions outside the U.S.In 2014, soon after Facebook bought a virtual reality firm called Oculus, Zuckerberg found himself being grilled in a lawsuit brought by a competitor who accused an Oculus executive of stealing trade secrets. Under questioning, he talked about the pressure he exerted to make the Oculus deal happen, and his vision of growing it so fast "that we can get every developer and studio in the world building just for Oculus before any big competitor exists."Last year, in a bid to free up his fortune for philanthropy, Zuckerberg pushed board members to restructure Facebook's stock, allowing him to sell off part of his stake while maintaining control. That prompted a suit by a group of shareholders who argued that the move would benefit only Zuckerberg while diluting the value of other investors' stakes. Days before Zuckerberg was scheduled to testify as part of the suit, the company dropped the plan.The gambit hints at the complexity of being Zuckerberg, who advocates for transparency and the interests of the community but whose individual interests don't always align.The paradox is self-inflicted, the trade-off for creating a venture premised on users' willingness to share details of their lives. That requires Zuckerberg, who has 105 million Facebook "friends," to reveal far more about himself than would be expected of any other CEO, whether its photos of him and Chan baking sweets for the Jewish holiday of Purim or dressing their daughters for the Chinese New Year.Yet he fiercely guards his privacy.When calls went out last year for Zuckerberg to testify before a Senate committee, the company sent its lawyer. And when he and Chan bought 700 acres on the Hawaiian island of Kauai last year, they quietly filed lawsuits against hundreds of Hawaiians — withdrawn after protests — that would have cut off locals' access to the land by negating their interest in small ancestral tracts within the estate's boundaries."Intellectually, he believes in transparency," Kirkpatrick said. "But emotionally, it's very difficult for him."____Facebook works hard to present Zuckerberg as someone deeply interested in the ordinary people whose lives are at the heart of its business.Stops on last year's U.S. tour, never announced, were set up by facilitators who revealed details to only a select few. But many of the visits were covered by the media and documented in professional-quality photos on Zuckerberg's Facebook page soon after he'd departed.Ostensibly, the idea was for Zuckerberg to learn. But in their brief interactions, many people were just as interested in finding a way to connect with him.In Hazard, Kentucky, educator Paul Green became custodian of the small town's biggest secret. A staffer from Zuckerberg's foundation, peppering Green with questions about the region's educational cooperative, finally admitted it was because the CEO himself wanted to visit. Green's reward for keeping it quiet was seeing the wide-eyed grins when Zuckerberg pulled up and greeted local high schoolers studying robotics and programming.Walking through science demonstrations, Zuckerberg spent more time trading tech tales with the teenagers than quizzing the teachers."He just lit up with those kids," Green said. "The way he talked with them about some of the things he did when he was in school and his passion for technology, it really was cool."When Zuckerberg toured an oil rig near Williston, North Dakota, last July, "from the minute he got out of the car to the minute he got back in the car, he was nothing but questions," said Ron Ness, president of the North Dakota Petroleum Council, which arranged the visit."I had Bakken shale, limestone, dolomite, and he was able to hold them in his hand, along with a bottle of crude oil. And I remember him asking, 'How do you get that oil out of that rock?'" geologist Kathleen Neset said.In Dayton, Ohio, Zuckerberg met with officials, caregivers and families battling drug addiction. Lori Erion, the founder of the group Families of Addicts, said she told him what it was like to learn her daughter, April, had shot up heroin in their own home."It seemed to get him really emotional," Erion said, recalling how Zuckerberg stood up suddenly and told the group he needed a few minutes to steady himself. When he returned, he asked what makes an addict stay clean and how families got their loved ones into treatment."We didn't ever talk about Facebook at all," Erion said, "which is really interesting because Facebook is really the main way of us getting information out. He really was just like a regular person."___As Zuckerberg connected with Americans face-to-face, controversy over Facebook continued to spiral.Shortly before the election, McNamee sent a letter to Zuckerberg and Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, warning that Facebook was being manipulated in ways its creators never intended. It wasn't just about the U.S. election: A consulting firm had collected data on people interested in the Black Lives Matter movement and sold it to police departments, and critics had detected a well-organized, clandestine campaign supporting Brexit.All this pointed to a deep problem with Facebook — that it was simply not equipped or not willing to prevent the misuse of its platform.McNamee said he has been disappointed in the incremental changes announced since.Facebook has adopted this "libertarian philosophy that says 'we are not responsible for anything downstream, we are allowed to disrupt media, we are allowed to addict our users and we are not responsible for any of the consequences of any of that,'" he said.Zuckerberg could change that. But McNamee said it is not enough to hire thousands of workers to weed through fake and abusive posts if those posts keep getting through. And tweaking Facebook's newsfeed so users see more posts from families and friends does not address his certainty that the algorithms underlying Facebook make it dangerously addictive."You cannot cure addiction by doing more of the thing that got you addicted in the first place, which is what Zuck recommends," McNamee wrote in an email.Critics say Facebook continues to ignore the possibility of the social network being used for dark purposes, but Zuckerberg's supporters counter that he is unfairly blamed for problems he could not have foreseen.Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, credits Zuckerberg with leading Facebook through a shift in mindset, making changes that will nudge users into a more positive virtual environment — without completely shutting out inflammatory content."Facebook basically is saying we enable people based on the way they behave. That's a very democratic argument. If people want to live in filter bubbles, who are we to say 'Don't live in filter bubbles,' even though we don't want them to?" Hoffman said.But Kirkpatrick argued that Zuckerberg's and Sandberg's surety that Facebook has a positive impact on society has blinded them to parallel realities. The company can't be fixed, Kirkpatrick said, until Zuckerberg comes to terms with existential threats to the way the social network does business — its potential to negatively affect democracy and the way it hooks in users."There's no question in my mind that Mark Zuckerberg is an ethical and responsible human being who wants to do the right thing," he said. "However, I do not think he has yet grasped the gravity with which his service is being perceived to be a socially harmful force all around the world. And I also don't think he realizes the extent to which that really is true."McNamee, recalling Zuckerberg as a 22-year-old visionary, said the CEO must be willing to rethink long-held assumptions. But that does not mean he has to abandon building his global community."You've won," McNamee said he would tell Zuckerberg if asked again for his counsel."You've achieved more than your wildest dreams. You're a billionaire. Now you have a chance to be a hero."
LONDON —  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's decision not to answer questions from British lawmakers about a scandal over the firm's data is "astonishing", the parliamentary committee chief who invited him to attend said on Tuesday."Given the extraordinary evidence that we've heard so far today... it is absolutely astonishing that Mark Zuckerberg is not prepared to submit himself to questioning," Damian Collins said. Collins, Chair of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport select committee was speaking during a hearing with a whistleblower from political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, the firm which got hold of data of millions of Facebook users.Collins added: "These are questions of a fundamental importance and concern to Facebook users, as well as to our inquiry as well. We would certainly urge him to think again if he has any care for people that use his company's services."(Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Stephen Addison)
WASHINGTON —  The leading U.S. consumer protection regulator and attorneys representing 37 states stepped up pressure on Facebook Inc on Monday to explain how the social network allowed data of 50 million users get into the hands of a political consultancy.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission took the unusual step of announcing that it had opened an investigation into the company - which it generally only does in cases of great public interest - citing media reports that raise what it called "substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook."On the same day, a bipartisan coalition of 37 state attorneys wrote to Facebook, demanding to know more about the company's role in the manipulation of users' data by the consultancy, Cambridge Analytica, which used it to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.“These revelations raise many serious questions concerning Facebook’s policies and practices, and the processes in place to ensure they are followed,” the letter said. "We need to know that users can trust Facebook. With the information we have now, our trust has been broken.”Facebook shares fell as much as 6.5 percent, briefly dipping below $150 for the first time since July 2017, before recovering the day's losses to close up 0.4 percent at $160.06.The shares are still down 13 percent since March 16, when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled to Cambridge Analytica. The company has lost more than $70 billion in market value since then.The recovery in Facebook's stock on Monday may have been due to investors taking advantage of the lower stock price and the belief that the latest regulatory scrutiny may not ultimately hurt the company's relative long-term growth prospects, Wall Street analysts said.The FTC investigation is looking at more than whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent order it reached with the FTC over its privacy practices, a person briefed on the matter told Reuters.If the FTC finds Facebook violated terms of the consent decree, it has the power to fine it thousands of dollars a day per violation, which could add up to billions of dollars.“We remain strongly committed to protecting people’s information," Facebook Deputy Chief Privacy Officer Rob Sherman said in a statement on Monday. "We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have.”ALL APOLOGIESLawmakers in the United States and Europe continue to pressure Facebook and Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg to explain the company's privacy practices.The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee said on Monday it had invited Zuckerberg and the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy.The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee have already formally asked Zuckerberg to appear at a congressional hearing.“Facebook's failure to protect confidential user information likely violated specific legally binding commitments, but also basic norms and standards," said U.S. Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee.In Europe, the European Union Justice Commissioner asked  Facebook if the company is "absolutely certain" that the Cambridge Analytica incident could not be repeated.Zuckerberg apologized last week for the mistakes the company had made and he promised to restrict developers' access to user information as part of a plan to protect privacy. He also said sorry in full-page advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers."The was a breach of trust, and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time," Zuckerberg said in the ads. "We are now taking steps to make sure this doesn't happen again."'FUTURE REGULATION'His apologies have failed to quell discontent. Germany's justice minister said Facebook's promises were not enough."In future we will have to regulate companies like Facebook much more strictly," Katarina Barley said after talks to which she summoned Facebook executives including European public affairs chief Richard Allan.Advertisers and users are also unhappy.U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys suspended all advertising on Facebook on Monday while wireless speaker maker Sonos said in a blog post it will remove advertising from Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Alphabet's YouTube for one week.Internet company Mozilla Corp and Germany's second-largest bank Commerzbank AG suspended advertising on Facebook last week.Opinion polls published on Sunday in the United States and Germany cast doubt over the trust people have in Facebook.Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey U.S. privacy laws, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday, while a survey published by Bild am Sonntag, Germany’s largest-selling Sunday paper, found 60 percent of Germans fear that Facebook and other social networks are having a negative impact on democracy.(Reporting by David Shepardson; Writing by Bill Rigby; Editing by Susan Thomas)
Breitbart News is taking a step into the live events business.Following the lead of other media companies seeking fresh sources of revenue, the right-wing news and opinion site is set to host its first-ever town hall in suburban New Orleans next month, a panel on privacy and technology with the commentator Ann Coulter and Peter Schweizer, the author of “Clinton Cash.”It’s an experiment for a site that has lately been confronting declining web traffic and turbulence in its top ranks. Stephen K. Bannon, the site’s longtime executive chairman, was forced out in January. Its page views last month were down by nearly half from a year earlier, according to the data-tracking firm comScore, though Breitbart disputes the figure.The Louisiana event is “the latest evolution in how to consume Breitbart content,” said Alexander Marlow, the site’s editor in chief.By branching into public forums, the site is taking a cue from one of its perennial foes: the mainstream media. News outlets like Vanity Fair, The Washington Post and The New York Times have long sponsored conferences and speaking events.The Breitbart event is to be held on April 5 at Andrea’s, an Italian restaurant in Metairie, La. The topic — the gatekeeping power of Facebook and other online platforms — coincides with a broader conservative offensive against Big Tech. Breitbart is one of several right-wing sites that have accused Facebook, Google and Twitter of suppressing right-wing voices, claims that the tech companies have denied.The panel will be live-streamed — on Facebook.Mr. Marlow, who will serve as moderator, said that tickets to the event would be free and that costs would be partly covered by Free Our Internet, a group that bills itself as “fighting the tech-left’s takeover of the internet.”Mr. Schweizer, who collaborated with Mr. Bannon on his investigations into Hillary Clinton, is finishing a documentary about the role of tech companies in filtering the news. Another scheduled guest, Robert Epstein, a former editor of Psychology Today, is expected to be featured in Mr. Schweizer’s film.Breitbart was a champion of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign, which Mr. Bannon eventually joined. The site has been denounced as misogynist, racist and xenophobic, and its writers routinely flog the establishment media: Last year, its reporters worked to undercut reporting by The Washington Post about misconduct by Roy Moore, the Republican Senate candidate in Alabama.Mr. Bannon’s ouster, from the White House and then from Breitbart, cut into the site’s cachet. But Breitbart is still among the top-ranked sites on Facebook, and several of its journalists were treated as celebrities at last month’s Conservative Political Action Conference.Facebook’s handling of its users’ data has come under scrutiny in part because of a scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a company that worked on the Trump campaign and was co-founded by Mr. Bannon. Facebook has banned the company from its platform, saying it misused personal data from Facebook that was provided to it.Mr. Marlow said he knew little about Mr. Bannon’s role in the company, though he defended Cambridge Analytica as engaging in the same kind of data-driven electioneering that left-leaning groups have done in the past.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on a housing discrimination lawsuit filed against Facebook (all times local):6 p.m.Facebook says a lawsuit alleging it lets landlords and real estate brokers discriminate is without merit.The Menlo Park, California-based company says in a statement Tuesday that it will defend itself vigorously against the Manhattan federal court lawsuit.The lawsuit was filed earlier in the day by the National Fair Housing Alliance and other related organizations. They accuse Facebook of designing its software to make it easier for brokers to discriminate against families with children, mothers and those with disabilities.The lawsuit says the company took steps two years ago to prevent racial discrimination in housing advertising but it has not yet succeeded in eliminating other kinds.The company says there is "absolutely no place" for discrimination on Facebook. The suit seeks a court order and damages.___2:43 p.m.Fair housing advocates have sued Facebook, saying it lets landlords and real estate brokers target advertising to discriminate against families with children, women and others.The lawsuit was filed Tuesday in New York federal court by the National Fair Housing Alliance and other organizations. It comes as Facebook faces criticism over allegations British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica used details of 50 million Facebook users to help Republican candidate Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential campaign.The housing groups say Menlo Park, California-based Facebook has abused its power as the biggest advertising agency in the world.The lawsuit alleges investigations by fair housing supporters in New York, Washington, D.C., Miami and San Antonio, Texas, prove Facebook lets advertisers discriminate. It seeks unspecified damages and a court order to end discrimination.Facebook hasn't responded to a message seeking comment.
NEW YORK —  Fair housing advocates sued Facebook Tuesday, saying it lets landlords and real estate brokers target advertising to discriminate against women, those with disabilities and families with children.The lawsuit in Manhattan federal court alleges investigations by fair housing supporters in New York, Washington, D.C., Miami and San Antonio, Texas, prove Facebook continues to let advertisers discriminate even though civil rights and housing groups have notified the company since 2016 that it is violating the federal Fair Housing Act. It seeks unspecified damages and a court order to end discrimination.Facebook said in a statement that the lawsuit is without merit and the company will defend itself vigorously."There is absolutely no place for discrimination on Facebook," the company said.The lawsuit was filed by the National Fair Housing Alliance and other organizations. It comes as Facebook faces criticism over allegations British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica used details of 50 million Facebook users to help Republican candidate Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential campaign.The housing groups say the Menlo Park, California-based Facebook abused its power as it became what amounts to the biggest advertising agency in the world.The lawsuit's explanation of how the discrimination is carried out begins with a description that would sound appealing to most advertisers. It said Facebook, with a customer base of over 2 billion people, collects a "treasure trove of information" to enable advertisers to target customers they believe are right for their businesses.Then it lets advertisers scroll through hundreds of demographics, behaviors and interests to decide which characteristics they want to include or exclude, the lawsuit said.The lawsuit said that the National Fair Housing Alliance did its own study after the investigative news nonprofit ProPublica published an article in October 2016 that said Facebook's online platform enabled advertisers to exclude from advertisements in the housing category those customers assigned black, Hispanic and other "ethnic affinities."It said the housing alliance was able to post a Facebook ad for a fictitious rental apartment after it selected options that excluded blacks and Hispanics from the ad's potential audience. After complaints, Facebook took steps to counter those kinds of discriminatory ads, the lawsuit said.But it said additional work by ProPublica and the housing alliance revealed that as recently as weeks ago the company was approving advertising that, in effect, discriminated against mothers, families with young children and those with disabilities."Although Facebook stopped approving housing advertisements that used its 'ethnic affinity' option in late 2017, it continues to create and develop content that facilitates advertisers excluding certain audiences based on legally protected characteristics," the lawsuit said.It said Facebook from Dec. 14 to Feb. 23 had accepted 40 advertisements that the housing alliance and affiliates created that excluded potential home seekers based on family status or gender.
