Over the last half decade, few stocks have been more beloved by investors and Wall Street analysts than Facebook. No wonder: After a rocky initial public offering in 2012, it has rolled over one obstacle after another, including the shift to mobile computing and the rise of photo sharing. It delivered revenue and user growth that surpassed even the most optimistic projections.By the end of last year, Facebook had 2.2 billion active users. Its stock rose 53 percent last year, single-handedly accounting for 3.7 percent of the 21.8 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, according to S.&P. Dow Jones Indices. By early February, its market capitalization had surpassed $560 billion, making it the fifth most valuable company in the index.By then Facebook alone accounted for nearly 2 percent of the S.&P. 500 index, which means that anyone who owns a broad-based stock mutual fund or index fund probably owns Facebook shares. Sophisticated investors and institutions, too, have considerable exposure: Goldman Sachs analysts reported last month that Facebook was the second most widely held stock (after Amazon) by hedge funds.Over 90 percent of Wall Street analysts covering the company deemed Facebook a “buy” in early February, even though, at $195 a share, its price-to-earnings ratio, a common valuation measure, was a lofty 35. (The average ratio now is about 24; historically, it has been about 15.)It was, as Wall Street pundits like to say, “priced for perfection.”Whatever else can be said about Facebook’s recent tribulations, this much is certain: Its situation is far from perfection.After revelations that data harvested from Facebook may have been used to try to influence Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and the United States presidential election, the social network giant faces multiple investigations in both Europe and the United States, along with potentially profit-crimping regulations and limits to its use of data. And investor retribution has been swift.Since hitting its peak on Feb. 2, Facebook has lost an astonishing $100 billion in market capitalization. Its stock was trading midweek at close to $153 a share, a decline of nearly 22 percent. (It rebounded by about 4.5 percent Thursday and closed at $159.79.)With Facebook’s plunge, investor concerns have spread to other social media and internet stocks with lofty multiples, like the so-called FANG stocks — Facebook, Apple and Amazon, Netflix and Google — and Twitter. They accounted for more than 10 percent of the S.&P. 500 at their peak.“People who own an index fund need to realize how important Facebook is, and how big a role it and the FANG stocks played in the market’s rise,” said Howard Silverblatt, senior industry analyst for the S.&P. Dow Jones Indices, who oversees statistical analysis for the S.&P. 500. “The FANG leadership is faltering. Social media hasn’t faced much regulation, and now there’s a cloud hanging over those companies.”In the midst of past Facebook euphoria, few saw this coming. One that did was Aiera, a robot that uses artificial intelligence to make stock recommendations. Aiera, an acronym for artificially intelligent equity research analyst, put out a “sell” recommendation for Facebook last fall.So did Brian Wieser, a senior analyst at Pivotal Research Group  who covers media and internet companies. Although he was positive about the stock for most of its long climb, he downgraded Facebook to “sell” last summer based on regulatory and advertiser concerns and what he now considers “systemic management issues.”Not only was it a lonely position, but “the stock went up and up,” Mr. Wieser told me this week. “But I thought the market was wrong, full stop.”“I didn’t know what the catalyst would be, but at some point revenue growth had to slow and the margins go down,” he said. “There are practical limits. And I felt investors were looking at Facebook in much too positive a light. They just ignored all the bad things, and there were a lot of them.”Then, when the news broke this month that a British firm, Cambridge Analytica, had used Facebook data for voter profiling, Mr. Wieser said, he thought it was “the most significant thing that had happened to Facebook since it became a public company.”“Most people hadn’t given much thought to how their data is used,” he added. “But this really exposed the potential abuse. This is digital advertising’s original sin, and there’s going to be a reckoning that even now I don’t think most investors fully appreciate.”The other Facebook skeptic, Aiera, can talk, but Wells Fargo — whose global internet analyst, Ken Sena, developed the robot along with Bryan Healey — wasn’t making its wunderkind available for interviews. But based on Aiera’s published comments, it issued its sell recommendation after analyzing the frequency of negative mentions in the media of Russia’s use of Facebook to influence the presidential election, as well as fundamental valuation and technical factors. (Aiera uses artificial intelligence to read and analyze a half-million pieces of data per day gleaned from the internet. It currently analyzes more than 1,600 stocks.)Wells Fargo has stressed that Aiera remains in experimental mode, but one potential advantage is that it removes all human emotion from its analysis. Thus, Aiera was indifferent to the fact that nearly every other analyst had a buy recommendation on Facebook.That included her putative master, Mr. Sena, who was thrust into the somewhat awkward position of explaining his own buy recommendation even as Aiera said sell.When I spoke to him this week, Mr. Sena stressed that Aiera was a tool that could detect patterns and eliminate bias. “Aiera said election interference was a big deal, and it turned out it was a big deal,” Mr. Sena said. “But it’s not meant to supplant human judgments.”He hasn’t changed his buy recommendation even though he agrees with Mr. Wieser that investors need to take threats of regulation seriously. “The conventional wisdom was that people don’t care that much about how their data is used,” Mr. Sena said. “They like the convenience of targeted advertising. But the level of public outcry over this is new.’’“Facebook is going to have to do a lot of explaining,’’ he added. “I believe they have the capability and the technology to make the platform secure. But it’s going to distract from other initiatives investors are counting on for growth, like virtual reality and video content.”Even so, Facebook’s decline has been so steep that even Mr. Wieser and Aiera may reassess their recommendations if they calculate that the stock has bottomed out.When he last reiterated his sell recommendation, Mr. Wieser’s price target was $152. “I don’t want to be trigger happy on this,” he said. “It’s not clear yet what happens next. I want to fine-tune my thoughts before I revisit this.”Aiera canceled her sell recommendation after the stock plunged. She hasn’t yet made a new recommendation. Of 45 analysts who cover Facebook, 41 currently have a “buy” or “overweight” recommendation, up from 39 a month ago.Mr. Sena is even more bullish on Facebook than he was before, and hasn’t changed his price target of $230. “People are still glued to Facebook and Instagram,” he said.Its price-to-earnings ratio is now just 28, barely above the market average, which makes it “the cheapest stock in our coverage area, and it has some of the best growth prospects,” he said. “There’s no way mathematically to justify a loss of more than $70 billion in market cap.”
LONDON —  The suspended chief executive of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, will appear before a British parliamentary committee, the Culture, Media and Sport Committee said on Wednesday.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters.The session will be Nix's second appearance before the committee and is likely to take place on April 17.(Reporting by William James, editing by Elizabeth Piper)
LONDON —  A committee of British lawmakers published written evidence on Thursday provided by a whistleblower who says information about 50 million Facebook users ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica said the documents did not support whistleblower Christopher Wylie's testimony to the committee this week.Wylie, who formerly worked for Cambridge Analytica (CA), alleges the data was used to help to build profiles on American voters and raise support for Donald Trump in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.He also alleges that CA was linked to Canadian firm AggregateIQ (AIQ), which he says was involved in the development of the software used to target voters. AggregateIQ, he says, received payment from a pro-Brexit campaign group before the 2016 referendum when Britain voted to quit the European Union.This was co-ordinated with the lead "Vote Leave" group in a breach of British electoral funding rules, Wylie alleged. Vote Leave denies any wrongdoing.Wylie appeared before the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee of the British parliament on Tuesday. The committee said Wylie provided it with documents including a services agreement between AIQ and SCL Elections, an affiliate of Cambridge Analytica, dated September 2014.Reuters was unable to independently verify the authenticity of the documents made public by the committee."None of these documents support the false allegations made in Tuesday's hearing," Cambridge Analytica said in a statement, adding that Wylie had left the company in July 2014 and would have no direct knowledge of its work or practices since then."It is wrong to suggest that Cambridge Analytica's earlier relationship with Aggregate IQ implies that we were involved with their work for Vote Leave. Cambridge Analytica did no work in any capacity in the 2016 EU referendum."AIQ did not respond to a Reuters request for comment after Tuesday's committee hearing, but in an earlier statement said it had never entered into a contract with Cambridge Analytica and had never been part of the firm.The parliamentary committee's chairman has said it was "astonishing" that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg decided not to answer lawmakers' questions, given the claims that Wylie had made about how data was used.(Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Andrew Roche and David Stamp)
BOGOTA —  A cellphone application blocked by the Colombian commerce regulator said on Thursday it has not shared Colombian users' data with Cambridge Analytica, the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United States.Colombia, which will hold presidential elections in May, on Wednesday blocked access to the Pig.gi app, which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and completing surveys. The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined.The regulator said the app might be connected to Cambridge Analytica, accused by a whistleblower of improperly accessing data to target U.S. and British voters in recent elections.A representative for the app told Reuters in an email on Thursday that Pig.gi did not have a relationship with the consultancy in the Andean country and that it has not shared any data gained from surveys of Colombian users with Cambridge Analytica.Pig.gi also said it had not yet been informed of the ban by the Colombian regulator."Pig.gi users have the choice to share their opinions consensually in exchange for internet connectivity coins. Their opinions are always anonymized before they are sent in accordance with Colombian and Mexican law," the app said in a statement posted on its Facebook page.The app cut ties with Cambridge Analytica in Mexico after the data scandal broke, saying it had shared results of two election polls of Mexican users with the consultancy and other partners.The commerce regulator said it would comment when its investigation had concluded.Facebook said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network. The company says the information of about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica has denied Facebook data was used to help to build profiles on American voters and build support for Donald Trump in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.(Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb, editing by G Crosse)
BOGOTA —  Colombia, which will hold presidential elections in May, on Wednesday blocked access to a cell phone application it said might be connected with Cambridge Analytica, the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United States.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.Colombia's commerce regulator said in a statement it would block an application called Pig.gi, which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and recommending their friends. The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined, the regulator said.The app, which users download via the Google Play store and sign into using their Facebook account, is administered by Farrow Colombia S.A.S and Farrow Mexico S.A.P.I. de CV, the statement said.Attempts to reach Farrow for comment were unsuccessful. A number listed for Farrow in Colombia belongs to another company. There is no listed number for the Mexico branch of the company."As a preventative measure and taking into account the potential risk of a wrongful and massive illegal use of the personal data of thousands of Colombians collected via the download of the Pig.gi application, the application Pig.gi is temporarily blocked while appropriate investigations are undertaken and definitive decisions adopted," the regulator said.The regulator did not specify what evidence it had of a connection between Cambridge Analytica and Farrow. The application will be blocked on the Google Play app store and on social media, as will websites where it can be downloaded.The regulator added it has requested cooperation and information from its counterparts in the United States, United Kingdom, European Union and Mexico.Facebook announced a series of changes on Wednesday to give users more control over their data, after the scandal wiped more than $100 billion from its stock market value.Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in U.S. President Donald Trump's campaign, and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.Colombia will hold presidential elections on May 27.(Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb and Nelson Bocanegra; Editing by David Gregorio)
NEW DELHI —  India's government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian voters and users has been compromised by U.K.-based Cambridge Analytica or any other downstream entity.A similar notice was dispatched to Cambridge Analytica last week following media reports that it had misused data to profile Indians and influence their elections. The government set a Saturday deadline for Cambridge Analytica and April 7 for Facebook to respond to its inquiry.Facebook is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that the data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections.India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said in a statement late Wednesday that Facebook has its largest footprint in India in terms of its user base and sought to know "what proactive measures it is taking to ensure the safety, security and privacy of such large user data and to prevent its misuse by any third party."The governing Bharatiya Janata Party and the main opposition Congress Party have accused each other of utilizing the services of the British company, but denied any link with it. Cambridge Analytica's allegedly unauthorized harvesting of Facebook data and a series of leaks linked to India's biometric database has refocused public attention on digital privacy in the country.Digital law experts say Indian regulations offered particularly weak safeguards against data breach.The Indian government's notice to Facebook sought to know "whether Facebook or its related or downstream agencies utilizing Facebook's data have previously been engaged by any entities to manipulate the Indian electoral process.""If any such downstream entity misused data from Facebook, what is the protection available to the data subject?" it asked.
LONDON —  Brexit donor Arron Banks said on Thursday Britain's data watchdog has joined the "wild unicorn chasing pack" of supporters wanting to remain in the European Union.Banks said he was asked to provide information as part of the Information Commissioner's investigation into whether data analytics were used to sway public opinion during the 2016 referendum on whether to leave the European Union.The Information Commissioner "appears to have joined the 'wild unicorn' chasing pack of 'Remainers' ..," Banks said in a statement.The watchdog is investigating the work of the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica and whether the company misled the public about work it did for a pro-Brexit group run by Banks before the vote to leave the EU.(Reporting By Andrew MacAskill; editing by Stephen Addison)
SAN FRANCISCO —  Facebook Inc said on Thursday it had begun "fact-checking" photos and videos to reduce the hoaxes and false news stories that have plagued the world's largest social media network.Facebook has for months faced an uproar among users whose complaints range from the spread of fake news to the use of the network to manipulate elections and the harvesting of 50 million people's Facebook data by the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Manipulated photos and videos are another growing problem on social media.The fact-checking began on Wednesday in France with assistance from the news organization AFP and will soon expand to more countries and partners, Tessa Lyons, a product manager at Facebook, said in a briefing with reporters.Lyons did not say what criteria Facebook or AFP would use to evaluate photos and videos, or how much a photo could be edited or doctored before it is ruled fake.The project is part of "efforts to fight false news around elections," she said.A representative for AFP could not immediately be reached for comment.Shares of Facebook closed up 4.4 percent at $159.79 on Thursday after a tumultuous two weeks. It remained down more than 13 percent from March 16, when Facebook disclosed the Cambridge Analytica data leak and sparked fears of stricter regulation.Facebook has tried other ways to stem the spread of fake news. It has used third-party fact-checkers to identify them, and then given such stories less prominence in the Facebook News Feed when people share links to them.In January, Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook would prioritize "trustworthy" news by using member surveys to identify high-quality outlets.Samidh Chakrabarti, another Facebook product manager, said in the briefing that the company had begun to "proactively" look for election-related disinformation rather than waiting for reports from users, helping it to move more quickly.Alex Stamos, Facebook's chief security officer, said in the briefing that the company was concerned not only about false facts but also other kinds of fakery.He said Facebook wanted to reduce "fake audiences," which he described as using "tricks" to artificially expand the perception of support for a particular message, as well as "false narratives," such as headlines and language that "exploit disagreements."(Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Richard Chang)
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network, a step that follows a scandal over how Facebook handles personal information.The world's largest social media company is under pressure to improve its handling of data after disclosing that information about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Facebook adjusted the privacy settings on its service on Wednesday, giving users control over their personal information in fewer taps.Facebook has for years given advertisers the option of targeting their ads based on data collected by companies such as Acxiom Corp and Experian PLC.The tool has been widely used among certain categories of advertisers - such as automakers, luxury goods producers and consumer packaged goods companies - who do not sell directly to consumers and have relatively little information about who their customers are, according to Facebook."While this is common industry practice, we believe this step, winding down over the next six months, will help improve people's privacy on Facebook," Graham Mudd, a Facebook product marketing director, said in a statement.Shares in Acxiom traded down more than 10 percent to $25 after Facebook's announcement after the bell. Shares in other data brokers were largely unchanged.Acxiom said late on Wednesday it did not expect this change to impact its revenue or earnings for the year ending in March.     The company currently expects revenue in the range of $910 million to $915 million in the 2018 fiscal year.However, for the 2019 fiscal year, Acxiom expects total revenue and profitability to be negatively impacted by as much as $25 million.Facebook declined to comment on how the change could affect its ad revenue.Advertisers would still be able to use third-party data services to measure how well their ads performed by examining purchasing data, Facebook said.Facebook's website lists nine third-party data providers that it has worked with, including Acxiom, Experian, Oracle Data Cloud, TransUnion and WPP PLC.Other companies, besides Acxiom, were not available for comment.Facebook on Wednesday also put all its privacy settings on one page and made it easier to stop third-party apps from using personal information. Privacy settings had previously been spread over at least 20 screens, Facebook said.Facebook said in a blog post it had been working on the updates for some time but sped things up to appease users' anger over how the company uses data and as lawmakers around the globe call for regulation.Facebook's shares closed up 0.5 percent at $153.03 on Wednesday. They are still down more than 17 percent since March 16, when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled in 2014 via a third-party app to Cambridge Analytica, which was later hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.The data leak has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers, who are Facebook's lifeblood, and lead to tougher regulation.SCRUTINY FROM LAWMAKERSFacebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has repeatedly apologized for the mistakes the company made and has promised to crack down on abuse of the Facebook platform and restrict developers' access to user information.There is a new Facebook page - called Access Your Information - where users can see what they have shared and manage it."The biggest difference is ease of access in settings, which fulfills Mark Zuckerberg's promise to make the privacy process and permissions more transparent to users," Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter said.It was uncertain whether the changes will satisfy lawmakers.They were announced ahead of a stringent European Union data law which comes into force in May. It requires companies to give people a "right to portability" - to take their data with them - and imposes fines of up to 4 percent of global revenue for companies breaking the law.Lawmakers in the United States and Britain are still clamoring for Zuckerberg himself to explain how users' data ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.He plans to testify before Congress, a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday. Facebook has said it has received invitations to testify and that it is talking to legislators.Zuckerberg and the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc have been invited to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee have also asked Zuckerberg to appear at a hearing.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into Facebook, and attorneys representing 37 states are also pressing Zuckerberg to explain what happened.(Reporting by David Ingram and Julia Fioretti; Additional reporting by Laharee Chatterjee, Arjun Panchadar and Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru; Editing by James Dalgleish and Cynthia Osterman)
(Reuters) - Shares of Acxiom Corp plunged as much as 34 percent on Thursday, after Facebook Inc said it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network.The stock has now lost nearly half of its market value since Facebook's comments on Wednesday that added to fears of increased scrutiny around how public data is handled and shared.Facebook is under pressure to improve how it manages data after disclosing that information on about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.The social network has for years given advertisers the option of targeting their ads based on data collected by companies such as Acxiom. Facebook's website lists nine third-party data providers that it has worked with, including Acxiom, Experian PLC, Oracle Data Cloud, TransUnion and WPP PLC.Arkansas-based Acxiom, which earns over $800 million a year selling consumer profiles to the world's largest companies, said late on Wednesday it did not expect this change to impact its revenue or earnings for the year ending in March.However, for fiscal year 2019, Acxiom expects total revenue and profitability to be hurt by as much as $25 million."The immediate impact was small. Now the question is how far does Facebook react to its issues," First Analysis analyst Larry Berlin said."A lot of what (Acxiom) is doing is probably not wrong and probably not at the core of the problem that Facebook has. Targeting consumers using data is sometimes very clean and sometimes it isn't."Even with little raw data, third-party data providers like  Acxiom attempt to build detailed pictures of individuals' finances, relationships, personal interests and purchasing tastes.These profiles power targeted advertising across the internet, and can also be used to determine what political issues people are interested in and how they might vote."I welcome Facebook's announcement that it will be shutting down its partner category service, using third party data to inform targeted advertising," said Britain's Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham in a statement on Thursday.WPP, Experian, TransUnion and Cisco did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Shares of Acxiom were down 32 percent at $19 by midday. The stock touch its lowest in more than 2 years in early trading.TransUnion fell nearly 1 percent, while WPP was down marginally.(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty)
