Perhaps at some point in the past few years you’ve told Facebook that you like, say, Kim Kardashian West. When you hit the thumbs-up button on her page, you probably did it because you wanted to see the reality TV star’s posts in your news feed. Maybe you realized that marketers could target advertisements to you based on your interest in her.What you probably missed is that researchers had figured out how to tie your interest in Ms. Kardashian West to certain personality traits, such as how extroverted you are (very), how conscientious (more than most) and how open-minded (only somewhat). And when your fondness for Ms. Kardashian West is combined with other interests you’ve indicated on Facebook, researchers believe their algorithms can predict the nuances of your political views with better accuracy than your loved ones.As The New York Times reported on Saturday, that is what motivated the consulting firm Cambridge Analytica to collect data from more than 50 million Facebook users, without their consent, to build its own behavioral models to target potential voters in various political campaigns. The company has worked for a political action committee started by John R. Bolton, who served in the George W. Bush administration, as well as for President Trump’s presidential campaign in 2016. “We find your voters and move them to action,” the firm boasts on its website.Cambridge Analytica now says it has destroyed the user data it collected on Facebook. Raw data reviewed by The Times suggests the information, or copies of it, may still exist. In either case, specific user information was merely a means to an end, a building block in a far more ambitious construction: a behavioral model powerful enough to manipulate people’s activity and, potentially, sway elections.The firm adapted its approach to personality modeling from studies conducted by researchers at Stanford University and the Psychometrics Center at the University of Cambridge. The studies relied on data collected by a Facebook app called myPersonality, a 100-question quiz developed by the Psychometrics Center that assessed a person’s openness, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness and neuroticism, traits commonly referred to in the academic community by the acronym Ocean.Many respondents who took the quiz through the myPersonality app authorized it to gain access to their Facebook profile data, and information about their friend network — access that was allowed by the social network at the time. That allowed researchers to cross-reference the results of the quiz — numeric Ocean scores — with the users’ Facebook “likes,” and build a model from the correlations they found between the two. With that model, the researchers could often make precise guesses about subsequent users’ personalities using only a list of their likes, no 100-question quiz necessary.One of the studies the Psychometrics Center produced, published in 2015 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, was built on the “likes” and Ocean scores of more than 70,000 respondents who took the myPersonality quiz on Facebook. It found that a person who liked the movie “Fight Club,” for example, was far more likely to be open to new experiences than a person who liked “American Idol,” according to a review of data provided to The Times by Michal Kosinski, an author of the 2015 study and a professor of organizational behavior at Stanford.In that study, the researchers compared the accuracy of their model with personality assessments made by the respondents’ friends. The friends were given a 10-question version of the myPersonality quiz and asked to answer based on their knowledge of the respondents’ personalities.Based on a sample of more than 32,000 participants who were assessed by both the model and one or two friends, the researchers found that the model, using just 10 likes, was more accurate than a work colleague. With 70 likes, it was more accurate than a friend or roommate; with 150, more accurate than a family member; and with 300, more accurate than a spouse.The model, the researchers said, was particularly adept at “predicting life outcomes such as substance use, political attitudes and physical health.” The real-world efficacy of the approach, however, has been called into question.When Cambridge Analytica approached the Psychometrics Center about using its models, the center declined. Cambridge Analytica then turned to Aleksandr Kogan, a psychology professor at Cambridge University who was familiar with the center’s work. Dr. Kogan developed a Facebook app called “thisisyourdigitallife,” a quiz similar to myPersonality, and used it to harvest data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles. Of those, 30 million contained enough information to generate personality profiles. Only 270,000 users authorized Dr. Kogan’s app to have access to their data, and all were told that their information was being used for academic research.Cambridge then pitched its services to potential political and commercial clients, ranging from Mastercard and the New York Yankees to the Joint Chiefs of Staff.Facebook has now banned Cambridge Analytica from its platform, as well as its parent company and Dr. Kogan. In Facebook’s eyes, Dr. Kogan’s infraction was not collecting the data, but giving it to Cambridge Analytica.“Although Kogan gained access to this information in a legitimate way and through the proper channels that governed all developers on Facebook at that time, he did not subsequently abide by our rules,” Facebook’s deputy general counsel said in a statement on Friday.By handing over that information to a private company, Facebook said, Dr. Kogan violated its terms of service.Facebook in 2015 changed its policies, including altering rules about how third-party apps can gain access to information about users’ friends. But user data collected through such apps over the years probably remains in the wild, not to mention the models that can continue to be used to target people around the world.
Over the years, regulators on both sides of the Atlantic have cracked down on Facebook and Google for privacy violations. But as the European Union prepares to introduce comprehensive new data protection regulation in May, European regulators have been stepping up investigations into tech industry data practices.Google reaches a settlement with the F.T.C., which charged the company with using deceptive tactics and violating its own privacy promises to consumers. Google had enrolled Gmail users in its social network, Buzz, without effective ways for them to opt out of the service or limit the sharing of their personal details, the agency said. Facebook agrees to settle charges by the F.T.C. that it deceived users by telling them that they could keep their profile information private and then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public.Google agrees to pay $22.5 million to settle F.T.C. charges that the company misled people who used Apple’s Safari browser by placing advertiser tracking codes, called cookies, on their computers after Google told them that they would be opted out of such tracking. Google also violated a previous settlement that prohibited it from misleading consumers over how they could control collection of their data, the agency said.After an audit by Ireland’s data protection commissioner, regulators report that Facebook turned off its photo-tagging facial recognition feature for new users in the European Union and will delete facial template data it had already collected from users there. The commissioner’s office said Facebook had not sufficiently notified users or obtained their explicit consent to use the feature.The European Commission fines Facebook $122 million for misleading regulators during their investigation of the company’s acquisition of the WhatsApp messaging service. The commission, the executive arm of the European Union, says Facebook told regulators that it would be unable to automatically match an individual user’s Facebook account with his or her WhatsApp account. But WhatsApp later announced that it would begin sharing user data with Facebook.In December, the French Data Protection Authority orders WhatsApp to stop sharing data with Facebook or face penalties. And in March, a German court bars Facebook from using data from German users of WhatsApp for Facebook’s own purposes, upholding the ruling of a lower court.In a preliminary finding, Germany’s Cartel Office reports that Facebook has abused its dominant position in the country by requiring users to allow it to endlessly amass data by tracking them through other online services. In February, the regulator says it planned to investigate whether the ability of large platforms like Facebook and Google to set up closed advertising systems and have access to user data was limiting market competition.A court in Belgium rules that Facebook must stop tracking users on third-party sites and delete the data it had already collected. The court says Facebook hadn’t sufficiently informed users about the data it gathered on their use of sites outside the social network or how it used that data. The European Union will put into effect a comprehensive privacy law, called the General Data Protection Regulation, that requires companies to obtain consent from users before processing their data and allows the authorities to fine companies up to 4 percent of their annual revenue if they fail to comply.
In the wake of news that the Facebook data of 50 million people was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm, many users are mulling whether it is time to leave the social network. Even a co-founder of WhatsApp, which Facebook bought for $16 billion in 2014, declared that it was time to delete Facebook.But while deleting your account is as simple as clicking on a few buttons, Facebook may be too ubiquitous to truly quit. For one, it would probably be inaccurate to say you have removed Facebook from your life just by leaving the site. Chances are you still use WhatsApp, the largest messaging app in the world, or Instagram, the most popular photo-sharing app. Facebook owns both.Keep in mind that Facebook isn’t the only company capable of collecting your information. One big culprit: Web trackers, like cookies embedded into websites and their ads. They are everywhere, and they follow your activities from site to site.You can quit Facebook if you simply find no joy in it. But if you’re looking to leave for philosophical reasons concerning privacy, it’s a futile effort. You may be better off tweaking your privacy settings on the site.Here are some answers to questions that many people are posing to The New York Times via social media.What are the alternatives to using Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp?There is no real substitute for Facebook if you’re looking for a social network that includes virtually everyone you meet in real life. Social networks are all about the people on them, and Facebook has more than 2 billion monthly users. You could consider Snapchat, which has about 187 million daily users, but it’s a far different experience — you primarily use it to send photos that self-destruct — with an interface that many people find confusing.There are plenty of alternatives to WhatsApp. But they have drawbacks and aren’t as far-reaching as WhatsApp, which has more than 1.5 billion monthly users.Signal is a solid app for secure encrypted messaging — but it is still a young service with a relatively small number of users. You might be able to get hundreds of your friends to join Signal. But chances are you have friends or family in other countries, and WhatsApp is the go-to messaging service internationally. For example, practically every smartphone user in India — more than 200 million people — uses WhatsApp.Another WhatsApp alternative is WeChat, a Chinese messaging app that has about a billion monthly users. But the majority of people on that service are in China. And WeChat faces its own privacy issues because of China’s notorious reputation for mass surveillance. Tencent, the company that runs WeChat, denies that it stores the chat histories of its users. But WeChat users have been arrested over conversations they have had in the app, and chat transcripts have been used as evidence in court proceedings.Instagram, which has more than 800 million monthly users, is also a tough one, giving Facebook a stranglehold on photo sharing. The only real competitor to Instagram is Facebook itself, which has its own photo-sharing features. Remember Flickr? The Yahoo-owned site is the closest thing either has to a competitor, and it’s like a graveyard of people’s digital memories before they abandoned it for Facebook and Instagram.Google Photos is a compelling service, but it is a photo album management tool, not so much a social network.How else do you keep in touch with friends and family? How do you create and discover events? How do you market and manage customer service for your small business? How do you spark and build grass-roots movements?Facebook is the one-stop shop to accomplish all those tasks. But if you have the patience, you can juggle multiple apps to cobble together the same experience.Messaging apps are popular for keeping in touch with friends and family — a group chat between family members via text message, for example, is still an efficient way to keep in touch. And sites like MeetUp are designed for hosting and discovering events.As for customer service, many companies use Twitter to engage with their customers and resolve complaints. Yelp, the reviews site for local businesses, is a common place for customers to talk about their experiences, and business owners often engage with people there.For grass-roots movements, a Twitter hashtag might be enough. Recent examples include #metoo, the movement for people to discuss sexual assault, #deleteuber, the campaign to protest Uber last year amid political controversy, and now, there is the movement to #deletefacebook in response to the Cambridge Analytica controversy.What does it mean to delete Facebook? How can you actually delete your account?You can permanently delete your account by clicking a few buttons on Facebook’s website. The company delays deletion for a few days, so do not log back in. Facebook also offers a tool for extracting a copy of your data before deleting your account.After you delete your account, it won’t be recoverable. But there are caveats.Shadows of your digital self would remain on the site. For example, if people uploaded photos of you, those photos will still be there. The conversations you had with friends through Facebook won’t disappear, either.When you delete your account, you are only deleting the media you posted, like your status updates and photos that you uploaded. That’s not going to do much for your privacy, considering that an overwhelming amount of what you do on Facebook involves engaging with other people. All of your friends (and their friends, too) would also have to delete their accounts in order to have any sort of meaningful effect.What other things are you losing access to if you delete Facebook? Why do so many apps require a Facebook login?One painful part of breaking up with Facebook would be potentially losing access to the many third-party apps and websites that are tied to your account. Over the past decade, many shopping sites and apps teamed up with Facebook to use the company’s login tool, Facebook Login.Facebook Login became popular because it was a good product. By clicking a button, you could sign up for an account with an app or website just by sharing your Facebook account data. That allowed you to skip manually entering details like your name and email address — a process that is especially cumbersome on a small smartphone screen. This sped up the process of signing up for an account to buy that pair of shoes you saw go on sale.If you were to delete Facebook, you would break your access to many sites and apps that you signed up for using Facebook Login. But fortunately, many sites and apps still let you sign up for accounts directly through them, and many also let you log in through your Google account.It’s not impossible to delete Facebook. But it would be a long and tedious process to create new accounts for all the apps and sites you use.Where does Facebook really equal the internet?Keep in mind that Facebook reaches well beyond the United States. As my colleague Sheera Frenkel noted on Twitter, deleting Facebook is a privilege. In some parts of the world, like Myanmar, Egypt and Indonesia, people rely on Facebook as a primary means to conduct business and stay in touch with friends and family. In Africa, Facebook has struck deals that offer basic services — centered on those provided by Facebook — to residents for free.
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, on Wednesday publicly addressed for the first time the misuse of data belonging to 50 million users of the social network and described the steps the company would take to safeguard the information of its more than two billion monthly users.Although his statement addressing a chorus of criticism fell short of a full-throated apology, Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook would contact users whose data had been harvested through a personality quiz app and passed along to the political data firm Cambridge Analytica.“We have a responsibility to protect your data,” Mr. Zuckerberg said Wednesday in a Facebook post, “and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you.”Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, was trying to quell the crisis over the disclosure last weekend that Cambridge Analytica had used data that had been improperly obtained from Facebook as the firm worked on behalf of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign.“Are there other Cambridge Analyticas out there?” Mr. Zuckerberg said later in an interview with The New York Times. He added, “Were there apps which could have gotten access to more information and potentially sold it without us knowing or done something that violated people’s trust? We also need to make sure we get that under control.”Mr. Zuckerberg said the company would investigate apps like the third-party quiz app that had previously obtained access to “large amounts of information” from the social network. He also said the company would restrict third-party developers’ access.“We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it,” he wrote in his Facebook statement.The Cambridge Analytica revelations added to the questions that have been raised about Facebook’s handling of user data and security. Those questions have only intensified as the company has faced criticism over the role its platform played in Russian attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election and the way it has been used to spread misinformation on the internet.The resulting backlash is Facebook’s worst crisis since it was founded by Mr. Zuckerberg and others in 2004. The information, photos and other content that users post and their frequent engagement with the platform is crucial to the social network, and to the company’s profitability. Questions about user privacy and security threaten the company’s standing at a time when people are already uneasy about whether the use of technology can bring good or ill.Last Friday, after The New York Times, The Observer of London and Channel 4 in Britain told Facebook that Cambridge Analytica had not deleted all of the data it had obtained, the social network banned the political consulting firm and Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge University researcher who created the personality quiz app that was used to harvest user data.“This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote on Wednesday. “But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it.”Facebook representatives confirmed that Cambridge Analytica representatives met with Facebook on Tuesday to discuss lifting the ban. Mr. Zuckerberg told The Times he did not rule out allowing Cambridge Analytica back, saying Facebook must first conduct a “full forensic audit of the firm” and “have full confirmation that there’s no wrongdoing here.”The reaction to the Cambridge Analytica disclosure has been severe. Politicians in the United States and Britain have called for Mr. Zuckerberg to explain how his company handles user data, and state attorneys general in Massachusetts and New York have begun investigating Cambridge Analytica and Facebook. A #DeleteFacebook movement calling on people to close their accounts has also gathered steam.In Washington, there have been more calls for regulation of internet companies like Facebook. Mr. Zuckerberg’s troubles there were illustrated by the final passage on Wednesday of a bill to combat sex trafficking. The bill would lift liability protections that internet companies have enjoyed for content that users post on their platforms. Facebook and other internet giants had quietly fought the bill for more than a year, but eventually dropped their opposition.Lawmakers who have demanded that Mr. Zuckerberg testify before Congress about Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica were not appeased by his statement.“You need to come to Congress and testify to this under oath,” Senator Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, tweeted in response to Mr. Zuckerberg’s post.Independent researchers who have used data from Facebook said that Mr. Zuckerberg’s statement did not acknowledge how the gathering of user data was fundamental to the company’s operations.“He avoided the big issue, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy,” said Jonathan Albright, research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University. “There is no question that handing out that data made Facebook the success it is as a company. This has to be recognized as part of their business model and not just a one-off problem.”In his statement, Mr. Zuckerberg laid out a timeline of Facebook’s dealings with Cambridge Analytica. He traced the information-sharing issue to 2007, when Facebook decided to become an open platform — enabling people to use Facebook to log into other apps and share detailed personal information about themselves and their friends.In 2013, Mr. Kogan, the Cambridge researcher, created a personality quiz app that about 300,000 people installed, Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Because Facebook was an open platform, Mr. Kogan was able to collect data on tens of millions of friends of those users who had installed the personality quiz app.A year later, Mr. Zuckerberg said, Facebook changed its policy to limit how much data third-party apps could access. “These actions would prevent any app like Kogan’s from being able to access so much data today,” he wrote.By 2015, Mr. Kogan had shared his data and findings with Cambridge Analytica, which later used the material to single out American voters. Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook had banned Mr. Kogan’s app and demanded that the researcher and Cambridge Analytica formally certify that the data had been deleted. He did not address in his post why Facebook had not already disclosed those activities to its users whose data had been harvested by Mr. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica.“Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in the interview.For Mr. Zuckerberg, the outcry over Cambridge Analytica has been personally damaging. Inside Facebook, even his staunch supporters have described a tense atmosphere. Some employees have sought to transfer to other divisions, such as the messaging app WhatsApp and the photo-sharing platform Instagram, calling their work on Facebook’s main product “demoralizing.”Mr. Zuckerberg spent part of the past week hunkered down with a small group of engineers to discuss how to make information on Facebook’s users more secure, and to potentially give them more control of their data, according to two Facebook employees who declined to be named because the proceedings were confidential.His silence on the matter has prompted mounting criticism in the past few days. Facebook held a staff meeting on Tuesday to answer questions about Cambridge Analytica and the surrounding outcry, but Mr. Zuckerberg did not appear at the event. He was scheduled to appear at a staff meeting that was set for Friday.In his interview with The Times, Mr. Zuckerberg said that the company’s efforts to safeguard its platform from bad behavior — which includes preparing for possible interference attempts in the 2018 midterm elections — were an important part of a larger transformation at the company, which has had to adjust from its roots as a social network for college students into a powerful global information hub.“If you had asked me, when I got started with Facebook, if one of the central things I’d need to work on now is preventing governments from interfering in each other’s elections, there’s no way I thought that’s what I’d be doing if we talked in 2004 in my dorm room,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.
A parade of regulators, politicians and law enforcement officials demanded to know more about Facebook’s privacy practices on Monday, as the fallout from the company’s relationship with a political data firm continued to spread.Early in the day, the Federal Trade Commission confirmed reports that it was investigating how Facebook handles information about its users.Soon after, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to testify about privacy standards next month. He also extended invitations to Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, and Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.And a group of 37 attorneys general sent Mr. Zuckerberg a letter asking for details about Facebook’s privacy safeguards.But one group of people interested in Facebook — investors — had a muted reaction to the growing regulatory threat. Shares of Facebook fell sharply after the F.T.C. confirmed its investigation but ended the day up 0.4 percent as overall trading on Wall Street recovered from a big drop last week.The federal investigation and threats followed recent news that the data collection firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked on the 2016 Trump presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of more than 50 million Facebook users.The F.T.C. said it planned to determine whether the social media giant had violated a consent decree it signed in 2011 to protect users’ privacy.The decree required Facebook to notify and receive explicit permission from users before sharing their personal information beyond the limits dictated by their privacy settings. Each violation of the agreement, which the agency reached with Facebook as part of a settlement over third-party apps, carries a penalty of up to $40,000 a day.The agency’s acknowledgment of its investigation helped push Facebook’s stock down as much as 6.5 percent on Monday morning before it recovered. Facebook said last week that it was anticipating an inquiry by the agency.The F.T.C. said in a statement on Monday that it “takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook.”Lawmakers have repeatedly called for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear in hearings on Capitol Hill. Last week, the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate commerce committees formally invited him to testify.“I’m sure this is much bigger than Cambridge Analytica, and I’m sure there are other Cambridge Analyticas out there,” Senator John Kennedy, Republican from Louisiana, said in an interview. “Facebook isn’t just a company. It is so powerful it is like a country.”Some lawmakers, such as Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat from Connecticut, asked the F.T.C. to look into whether Facebook should pay damages to users.“The sphere of scrutiny must be broader than just the consent decree,” he said in a statement. “There is no excuse for delay.”Cambridge Analytica is facing intense criticism, too. On Monday, Common Cause, a government watchdog group in Washington, filed complaints seeking federal investigations into allegations that the company violated federal election law.In an article that detailed how Cambridge Analytica obtained information about millions of Facebook users, The New York Times reported this month that employees of the data research firm with European or Canadian citizenship had worked extensively for its American clients during the 2014 and 2016 elections, despite a warning from its own election lawyer.The employees worked on polling, message development, and the designing of target audiences for digital ads and fund-raising appeals.The company said the work was permissible because none of the foreign employees had “strategic” or “operational” roles. But former employees contradicted that account, suggesting that the work violated laws in the United States that strictly limit what non-Americans can do for American political campaigns.Common Cause filed one complaint with the Justice Department, which has authority to investigate “knowing and willful” violations of campaign law. The group also filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, which has day-to-day jurisdiction over enforcing election rules.“It defies belief that even after their own attorney warned them that they would be violating the prohibition on performing certain election-related activities in U.S. elections that they did so anyway,” said Paul S. Ryan, Common Cause’s vice president for policy and litigation.In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, lawyers appealed two lawsuits that challenged the social media company’s privacy and user data policies. One lawsuit claims that Facebook violates the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (Wiretap Act) and state law equivalents because of the way it monitors its users on and off the platform.The second suit claims that Facebook has been capturing and selling the details of users’ browsing of third-party health sites. Any site with a Facebook “like” button, including those of medical institutions such as the American Cancer Society and the American Society of Clinical Oncology, could be used to track users as they browsed outside Facebook, according to the lawsuit.Facebook also has been targeted by several shareholder lawsuits since the reports detailing Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook user information.Many users have threatened to deactivate or delete their accounts to protest Facebook’s stewardship of their personal data. The #deletefacebook campaign, as it has been called, has even received support from a creator of WhatsApp, one of Facebook’s most popular services, who sold his company to the social media giant for $19 billion in 2014. Elon Musk, the chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla, removed the Facebook pages of both companies on Friday.While the Cambridge Analytica revelations have renewed regulatory interest in Facebook in the United States, pressure on the company in other countries has been building for years.The company has been the subject of several privacy investigations and charges by European regulators. And Europe has approved a new privacy law, which takes effect in May, that will give users of Facebook, Google and other internet services more control over how their data is collected and what Silicon Valley companies know about them.
The stock is down 6.5 percent Monday morning as the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that it has opened an investigation into Facebook’s privacy practice.Also on Monday, Senator Chuck Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Mr. Zuckerberg to testify about privacy standards next month and also extended the invitation to Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, and Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.Facebook’s shares are down nearly 22 percent since its high in early February and off more than 18 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke more than a week ago.To put Facebook’s recent tumble in perspective: The stock is set for its worst monthly performance since August 2012. Over the past 10 days, Facebook has lost $100 billion in market value.Despite the fall, Wall Street has not soured on Facebook. Forty-four analysts have buy ratings on the stock, compare to just two who have sell ratings, according to Bloomberg.The Apple C.E.O. said at the China Development Forum in Beijing that the government should tighten privacy regulations, after last week’s revelations about Facebook and Cambridge Analytica:Apple often uses privacy as a selling point, but Mr. Cook wasn’t the only critic. Elon Musk deleted SpaceX and Tesla’s Facebook pages, saying that the Tesla one “looks lame anyway.” Sir Martin Sorrell of the ad giant WPP said Facebook needed to “step up to the mark” and be responsible for content on its platform. And some companies have stopped buying ads on Facebook, highlighting how advertisers want more transparency about performance. (Users also complained that the Android app tracked calls and text messages.)Meanwhile, Facebook took out full-page ads in several British and American newspapers — including the NYT — for an apology signed by Mark Zuckerberg.Elsewhere in Cambridge Analytica news: A volunteer for the campaign for Britain to leave the E.U. said that a Canadian data company linked to Cambridge Analytica had played a role in the organization’s work. Groups campaigning against Brexit have written to Prime Minister Theresa May demanding an investigation into what members of her cabinet and her staff knew.Andrew’s takeMr. Cook’s points on privacy are absolutely right. But he has a tough needle to thread, given that Apple does business in China and acknowledges that it is “subject to each country’s laws” that it does business in. Apple encrypts all user data and says there is no back door — and I believe that — most security and political experts have speculated that Beijing might ultimately be able to gain access iCloud data for Chinese customers: It adopted a law requiring all cloud services to be operated by Chinese companies. Apple says that it lobbied against the new law, but ultimately complied.As for Facebook’s ad, take note of this: “We expect there are others. And when we find them, we will ban them and tell everyone affected.” Settle in for more episodes before this soap opera ends.Elsewhere in privacy: Growing calls for privacy could seriously dent the business model of ad-supported internet. Federal law enforcement officials are renewing a push for a legal mandate that would allow access to encrypted data in criminal investigations.
(Reuters) - The European Commission pressed Facebook on Monday over whether EU citizens' data were among those improperly harvested by a British political consultancy, after the U.S. regulator said it was investigating the firm's privacy practices.That piled yet more pressure on a firm that has lost more than $100 billion in market value in the last 10 days.Facebook shares fell more than 5 percent on Monday after the U.S. consumer protection regulator made public its investigation of how the social network allowed data of 50 million users to get into the hands of Cambridge Analytica.Facebook executives have apologized after reports emerged that Cambridge Analytica had used personal data to target U.S. voters."Have any data of EU citizens been affected by the recent scandal?" EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova wrote in a letter to Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg, seen by Reuters. "If this is the case, how do you intend to inform the authorities and users about it?"Jourova said that statements by Facebook executives had not alleviated her concerns."This is particularly disappointing given our efforts to build a relationship based on trust with you and your colleagues ... this trust is now diminished."A Facebook spokeswoman said the company remained strongly committed to protecting people's information and appreciated "the opportunity to explain what we know and will respond to the questions that the Commissioner has asked".Jourova asked Sandberg whether she was certain that a similar situation could "not be repeated today" and if she thought stricter rules were needed for platforms "like those that exist for traditional media"."As Mark Zuckerberg said this week, we are working hard to tackle past abuse, prevent future abuse and give people more prominent controls," the Facebook spokeswoman said.Germany's justice minister called for stricter rules for Facebook after meeting with company executives on Monday who said around 1 percent of 300,000 users of a personality quiz whose results were later fed into Cambridge Analytica's voter-targeting algorithms were in Europe.Jourova said she wanted a reply to her letter within two weeks.The Cambridge Analytica scandal emerged only a few months before a landmark EU data protection law comes into force under which companies found to be in breach could be fined up to 4 percent of global turnover.Any eventual sanctions for Facebook will fall under the current privacy regulations, and so would be much lower.Britain's data watchdog is taking the lead in investigating Facebook and Cambridge Analytica from the European side, and Jourova said she expected the social network to cooperate fully with European data protection authorities.(Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Andrew Roche and David Evans)
LONDON —  A group of whistleblowers on Monday questioned the integrity of Britain's vote to leave the European Union, presenting 50 pages of documents that they say prove the official Brexit campaign group violated election finance rules on the way to winning the 2016 referendum.They allege that the official Vote Leave campaign circumvented spending limits by donating 625,000 pounds ($888,000) to the pro-Brexit student group BeLeave but sending the money directly to campaign consultant AggregateIQ. The firm has long-term links to Cambridge Analytica, the British consultant accused of misusing Facebook data to help Donald Trump win the 2016 U.S. presidential election, the group says."This not about re-fighting the referendum," Chris Wylie, the central figure in the original Cambridge Analytica revelations, told reporters at a packed news conference in London. "It's about the integrity of the democratic process."The allegations have been presented to Britain's Electoral Commission and come just days after a prominent Labour Party politician called for a second Brexit referendum once the true costs of leaving the bloc become clear. Britain voted to leave the EU in a June 2016 referendum, with 52 percent of voters supporting Brexit.They were first published last weekend as part of a wide-ranging investigation of Cambridge Analytica by Britain's Observer newspaper, together with Channel Four and The New York Times. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said Monday that it is investigating Facebook's privacy practices as a result of concerns raised by earlier stories in the series.Campaign finance rules limited Vote Leave's spending on the Brexit referendum to 7 million pounds. When Vote Leave got close to that limit during the final weeks of the campaign, it made the donation to BeLeave, said Shahmir Sanni, a volunteer who helped run the grassroots student group."I know that Vote Leave cheated," Sanni told Britain's Channel 4 news. "I know that people have been lied to and that the referendum wasn't legitimate."Attorney Tamsin Allen laid out the evidence supporting the claims during a news conference in London, presenting journalists with printouts of electronic message exchanges, photos and a legal opinion presented to Britain's Electoral Commission.The message exchanges show Vote Leave officials overseeing the content of material distributed by BeLeave volunteers, and offering suggestions on how BeLeave workers should respond to questions from the Electoral Commission. One email from a commission investigator discusses how BeLeave should report the Vote Leave donation since it never actually received the money.The whistleblowers also have evidence that AggregateIQ was sending targeted ads on behalf of BeLeave at a time when it was working closely with Vote Leave, Allen said."A number of witnesses, including Shahmir Sanni, one of the Vote Leave volunteers, have now come forward with their accounts and produced emails, invoices, photographs and evidence from the internal systems of Vote Leave and BeLeave," she said.Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, a leading figure in the Leave campaign, dismissed the campaign finance allegations as "ludicrous."Environment Secretary Michael Gove, who was co-chair of the Vote Leave campaign, insisted the referendum result must be respected."I respect the motives and understand the feelings of those who voted to remain in the EU," he said. "But 17.4 million opted to leave in a free and fair vote and the result must be respected. It's our job now to work to overcome division."AggregateIQ, based in Victoria, British Columbia, said it has never been part of Cambridge Analytica and has never signed a contract with the company. But Wylie told the Observer that he was instrumental in the foundation of AggregateIQ, when he was the research director of SCL, the parent company of Cambridge Anayltica. He said they shared underlying technology and worked so closely together that Cambridge Analytica staff often referred to the Canadian firm as a department.But the company said it was 100-percent Canadian owned and operated and was never part of Cambridge Analytica or SCL."AggregateIQ works in full compliance within all legal and regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where it operates," the company said in a statement. "It has never knowingly been involved in any illegal activity. All work AggregateIQ does for each client is kept separate from every other client.'"Britain's Electoral Commission says it doesn't comment on active investigations, but it has acknowledged a number of open inquiries related to the EU referendum.
BERLIN —  Companies like Facebook must face stricter regulation and tougher penalties meted out by better equipped data-protection authorities, Germany's justice minister said on Monday after a meeting with senior executives from the company.Katarina Barley summoned the bosses, including European public affairs chief Richard Allan, after allegations surfaced that data from millions of its users was improperly used by consultants Cambridge Analytica to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections."Facebook admitted abuses and excesses in the past and gave assurances that measures since taken mean they can't happen again," she said. "But promises aren't enough. In future we will have to regulate companies like Facebook much more strictly."(Reporting by Thomas Escritt; Editing by Joseph Nasr)
Authorities in the U.S. and Europe are bearing down on Facebook and political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users and used it to manipulate elections.There have been numerous demands for investigations and calls for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify. Zuckerberg has said he's willing to testify before Congress to answer questions about the privacy scandal. But he suggested other executives might be better qualified to field questions from lawmakers.___IN THE UNITED KINGDOM:— PARLIAMENT COMMITTEE: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman, Damian Collins, said his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He said Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee." In a letter to Zuckerberg, Collins wrote, "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process."— INFORMATION COMMISSIONER: Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is pursuing a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica's servers. Although Cambridge Analytica said it is committed to helping the U.K. investigation, Denham's office said the firm failed to meet a deadline to produce the information requested. Denham said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way.___IN GERMANY:— Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook, following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data. Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected.___IN THE UNITED STATES:— SENATE: The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy. Sen. Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected, retained and distributed for commercial use. Senate Democrats have also been seeking information or Zuckerberg's testimony, while Republicans on the Commerce Committee also sent letters requesting information from Facebook and Cambridge parent SCL Group.— HOUSE: Chris Wylie, a former Cambridge Analytica employee who became a whistleblower, has agreed to be interviewed by Democrats on the U.S. House Intelligence Committee. A date has not been set, and it's unclear if Republicans on the panel will attend.— FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: The agency confirms it will investigation following news reports last week. Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data.— INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse. They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily.
