LONDON —  Facebook's Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer will answer questions from British lawmakers on the social media giant's recent data scandal on April 26, a parliamentary  committee said on Friday.Facebook Inc said on Wednesday the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous estimates.Lawmakers had asked Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg or another senior Facebook executive to explain to a parliamentary committee how the data got into Cambridge Analytica's hands. Committee chair Damien Collins has said it was "astonishing" that Zuckerberg was not prepared to answer questions himself.The Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee said it would also hear from former Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix on April 18, his second hearing, as well as from Aleksandr Kogan, a research associate at the centre of the scandal, on 24 April.(Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Stephen Addison)
JAKARTA, Indonesia —  Indonesian government said Friday it is investigating Facebook over the privacy breach of its Indonesian users.The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology said in a statement that it had asked the National Police chief to investigate possible violations of Indonesia's privacy law a day after Facebook announced that personal data of more than 1 million Indonesians might have been exposed by political consultant Cambridge Analytica.It said Facebook representatives in Indonesia could face up to 12 years in prison and a fine of $871,000, if convicted.The ministry summoned the representatives late Thursday to deliver a warning letter.Communications Minister Rudiantara told reporters after the meeting that he has asked Facebook to stop its applications that could allow third parties to get users' personal information."We ask Facebook to provide us their audit results to see how the personal information is used by the Cambridge Analytica," said Rudiantara, who like many Indonesians uses a single name.Facebook Indonesia Head of Public Policy Ruben Hattari said they will keep cooperating with the Indonesian government."Our main goal is to secure privacy data of all Facebook users," Hattari said after the meeting.Indonesia is the world's fourth-largest Facebook user with more than 115 million active members, and nearly 97 percent of them are on mobile devices.
BRUSSELS —  The European Union said Friday that Facebook has told it that up to 2.7 million people in the 28-nation bloc may have been victim of improper data sharing involving political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica.EU spokesman Christian Wigand said EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova will have a telephone call with Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg early next week to address the massive data leaks.The EU and Facebook will be looking at what changes the social media giant needs to make to better protect users and how the U.S. company must adapt to new EU data protection rules.Wigand said that EU data protection authorities will discuss over the coming days "a strong coordinated approach" on how to deal with the Facebook investigation.Separately, Italy's competition authority opened an investigation Friday into Facebook for allegedly misleading practices following revelations that the social network sold users' data without consent.Authority chairman Giovanni Pitruzzella told Sky News24 that the investigation will focus on Facebook's claims on its home page that the service is free, without revealing that it makes money off users' data.The investigation comes as Italian consumer advocate group Codacons prepares a U.S. class action against Facebook on behalf of Italians whose data was mined by Cambridge Analytica. Codacons said just 57 Italians downloaded the Cambridge Analytica app, but that an estimated 214,000 Italians could be affected because the data mined extended to also the users' friends.A top Facebook privacy official is scheduled to meet with the authority later this month.___This story was earlier corrected to show that the EU call will take place with Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg not with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
The news about Facebook is not getting better. The company has sharply increased the number of users whose data was improperly shared with an outside company connected to President Trump’s campaign, to possibly 87 million. Amid an outcry, Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, is expected to testify before Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday.There is a dog-eared playbook for industry titans called before lawmakers: Apologize repeatedly, be humble, keep it boring. Mr. Zuckerberg can and should toss that playbook. He’s got $60 billion to his name, 99 percent of which he has said he will donate to charity. And he controls Facebook — is Facebook — in an unusual way: He controls 60 percent of its shareholder votes. So he doesn’t have to worry about next month’s subscriber count or how to deflect a hardball question from a committee chairman. He can contemplate posterity with big ideas geared to a public interest. Given Facebook’s domination of social media, anything the company does — including a devolution of its power — will serve as a model for others.To get a sense of the new approaches he should take, consider why Congress is calling hearings. The core offenses begin with classic and now pervasive online privacy violations.In 2014, 270,000 people were paid by an outside developer to install a Facebook app and answer questions like “Do you panic easily?” and “Do you often feel blue?” They weren’t told that their answers would become part of a psychological profile used by a voter profiling company, Cambridge Analytica — first to assess how they might vote and second to design personalized advertising for the purpose of changing their political views or their likelihood of voting, all to favor the agenda of Cambridge Analytica’s funders and clients. The app also scooped up information from the typically nonpublic profiles of the quiz-takers’ friends — turning 270,000 people into 87 million.The violations are a big deal, even though this type of profiling is still hit and miss. Incentives push toward keeping and copying data rather than deleting it — and using it to, say, quietly target the credulous with ads for snake oil, limit the groups who see certain real estate ads or serve African-American voters with ads designed to depress Election Day turnout.Currently there is no way for us to retract information that previously seemed harmless to share. Once tied to our identities, data about us can be part of our permanent record in the hands of whoever has it — and whomever they share it with, voluntarily or otherwise. The Cambridge Analytica data set from Facebook is itself but a lake within an ocean, a clarifying example of a pervasive but invisible ecosystem where thousands of firms possess billions of data points across hundreds of millions of people — and are able to do lots with it under the public radar.Several years ago Facebook started to limit what apps could scrape from friends’ profiles even with permission, but the basic configuration of user consent as a bulwark against abuse hasn’t changed. Consent just doesn’t work. It’s asking too much of us to meaningfully respond to dialogue boxes with fine print as we try to work or enjoy ourselves online — and even that is with the naïve assumption that the promises on which our consent was premised will be kept.There are several technical and legal advances that could make a difference.On the policy front, we should look to how the law treats professionals with specialized skills who get to know clients’ troubles and secrets intimately. For example, doctors and lawyers draw lots of sensitive information from, and wield a lot of power over, their patients and clients. There’s not only an ethical trust relationship there but also a legal one: that of a “fiduciary,” which at its core means that the professionals are obliged to place their clients’ interests ahead of their own.The legal scholar Jack Balkin has  convincingly argued that companies like Facebook and Twitter are in a similar relationship of knowledge about, and power over, their users — and thus should be considered “information fiduciaries.”Doctors don’t ask patients whether they’d consent to poison over a cure; they recommend what they genuinely believe to be in the patients’ interests. Too often a question of “This app would like to access data about you, O.K.?” is really to ask, “This app would like to abuse your personal data, O.K.?” Users should be respected by protecting them from requests made in bad faith. And just as a doctor should encourage a patient to get second opinions, Facebook should allow its users to write and share their own formulas for how their news feeds should be populated, rather than making a one-size-fits-all decision that, say, updates from friends and family are to be prioritized over news.As well-trained artificial intelligence devices get better at making unsettling inferences about us based on a handful of “likes” or places we’ve visited, we must recognize that the power to predict and shape our behavior lies less in whether we share our own data and more in whether others do. A fiduciary approach would demand that companies not betray our interests by using others’ data against us.Facebook needs to do more than just identify political ads and who’s behind them, a change it announced on Friday. All of its ads, political or otherwise, should be available for anyone to peruse, not just those targeted to receive them. Most of us won’t spend a Sunday looking through Facebook ads, but public interest groups and consumer protection officials will, and they’ll publicize and be in a position to act on the troubling things they find.Given the blowback around current privacy and advertising practices — and the threat of regulation, especially from the European Union — companies like Facebook should do the right thing and commit to representing users’ interests. And the law could nudge them in that direction without outright requiring it. These actions might reduce Facebook’s growth or profitability, but that is not a compelling reason to stop doing something harmful. It may be that aspects of an advertising-based business model are indeed incompatible with ethically serving users, as polluted streams are incompatible with ethically mining coal.Facebook does contribute to efforts to improve our digital lives, including one on youth education at the center I co-founded. But in terms of privacy, it could get the ball rolling on the adoption of new technologies that can help. Users could be given more options for expiration dates for what they share — and a chance to find out instantly where their data has traveled. Photos and data can be beneficially tweaked so that individuals involved are not digitally identifiable.The freedom to store and exchange data without boundary or prohibitive cost should be a boon to the world and to ourselves, rather than something that dehumanizes us. But understanding the phenomenon is growing harder, because the scrutable openness of the early years of internet development has given way to the walled gardens of Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. We need to avoid the worst of all worlds for privacy, in which a few companies collect and traffic in our data, with a fig leaf of consent, while researchers and journalists who are trying to grasp the dimensions of their actions are locked out.Mr. Zuckerberg has the power to shake things up. He could bind his company to practices and technologies aimed at a sea change on user privacy and autonomy. Rather than circling the wagons, Facebook can join the cause. If it doesn’t, people should disperse to platforms that will.
MENLO PARK, Calif. —  Facebook says it has suspended a Canadian political consulting firm amid media reports it had ties to Cambridge Analytica, a British data mining company accused of obtaining data from up to 87 million Facebook users to sway elections.Menlo Park, California-based Facebook says in a statement issued Saturday that AggregateIQ may have improperly received data from Facebook users. AggregateIQ will lose all Facebook access.Cambridge Analytica was employed by Donald Trump's presidential campaign. It says it received data from 30 million users but never used it in the 2016 campaign.Whistleblowers say AggregateIQ worked on the campaign for Great Britain to exit the European Union.AggregateIQ says on its website it isn't part of Cambridge Analytica or parent firm SCL. It says it didn't have access to Facebook data from Cambridge Analytica.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Friday that it had suspended Canadian political consultancy AggregateIQ from its platform after reports that the data firm may have improperly had access to the personal data of Facebook users.Facebook is under intense pressure after the data of millions of its users ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica. Christopher Wylie, a whistleblower who once worked at Cambridge Analytica, has said that it worked with Canadian company AggregateIQ."In light of recent reports that AggregateIQ may be affiliated with SCL and may, as a result, have improperly received FB user data, we have added them to the list of entities we have suspended from our platform while we investigate," Facebook said in a statement."Our internal review continues, and we will cooperate fully with any investigations by regulatory authorities."Strategic Communication Laboratories (SCL) is a government and military contractor that is the parent of Cambridge Analytica.Wylie has said that AggregateIQ received payment from a pro-Brexit campaign group before the 2016 referendum when Britain voted to quit the European Union.The Canadian federal agency charged with protecting privacy rights of individuals said on Thursday that the agency, along with its counterpart in British Columbia, would jointly investigate Facebook and AggregateIQ over the ongoing data scandal.British Columbia's privacy commissioner was separately investigating AggregateIQ over whether the Victoria-based company had broken provincial personal privacy rules for its role in the Brexit campaign.Facebook Canada said on Wednesday that more than 600,000 Canadians had their data "improperly shared" with Cambridge Analytica.AggregateIQ was not immediately available for a comment.Cambridge Analytica tweeted on Wednesday, "When Facebook contacted us to let us know the data had been improperly obtained, we immediately deleted the raw data from our file server, and began the process of searching for and removing any of its derivatives in our system."Facebook said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million.Facebook first acknowledged last month that personal information about millions of users wrongly ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.London-based Cambridge Analytica, which has counted U.S. President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign among its clients, said on Wednesday on Twitter that it had received no more than 30 million records from a researcher it hired to collect data about people on Facebook.(Reporting by Rama Venkat Raman in Bengalur and David Ingram in San Francisco; Editing by Toni Reinhold)
Facebook Inc faced new calls for regulation from within United States Congress and was hit with questions about personal data safeguards on Saturday after reports a political consultant gained inappropriate access to 50 million users' data starting in 2014.Facebook disclosed the issue in a blog post on Friday hours before media reports that conservative leaning Cambridge Analytica a data company known for its work on Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign was given access to the data and may not have deleted it. The scrutiny presented a new threat to Facebook's reputation which was already under attack over Russians' alleged use of Facebook tools to sway American voters before and after the 2016 United States elections. It's clear these platforms can't police themselves. Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar tweeted. They say 'trust us ' Mark Zuckerberg needs to testify before Senate Judiciary she added referring to Facebook's CEO and a committee she sits on Facebook said the root of the problem was that researchers and CambridgeAnalytica lied to it and abused its policies but critics on Saturday threw blame at Facebook as well demanding answers on behalf of users and calling for new regulation Facebook insisted the data was misused but not stolen because users gave permission sparking adebate about what constitutes a hack that must be disclosed to customers. The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook's data practices and the picture is not pretty said Frank Pasquale a University of Maryland law professor who has written about Silicon Valley's use of data Pasquale said Facebook's response that data had not technically been stolen seemed to obfuscate the central issue that data was apparently used in a way contrary to the expectations of users. It amazes me that they are trying tomake this about nomenclature. Democratic Senator Mark Warner said the episode bolstered the need for new regulations about internetadvertising describing the industry as the Wild West. Whether it's allowing Russians to purchase political ads or extensive microtargeting based on ill gotten user data it's clear that left unregulated this market will continue to be prone to deception and lacking in transparency he said. With Republicans controlling the Senate's majority though it was not clear if Klobuchar and Warner would prevail. The New York Times and London's Observer reported on Saturday that private information from more than 50 millionFacebook users improperly ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica and the information has not been deleted despite Facebook'sdemands beginning in 2015 Some 270000 people allowed use of their data by a researcher who scraped the data of all their friends aswell a move allowed by Facebook until 2015. The researcher sold the data to Cambridge which was against Facebook rules the newspapers said. Cambridge Analytica worked on Trump's 2016 campaign. A Trump campaign official said though that it used Republican data sourcesnot Cambridge Analytica for its voter information Facebook in a series of written statements beginning late on Friday said its policieshad been broken by Cambridge Analytica and researchers and that it was exploring legal action.Cambridge Analytica in turn said it had deleted all the data and that the company supplying it had been responsible for obtaining it.Andrew Bosworth a Facebook vice president hinted the company could make more changes to demonstrate it values privacy.We must do better and will he wrote on Twitter adding that our business depends on it at every level.Facebook said it asked for the data to be deleted in 2015 and then relied on written certifications by those involved that they had complied. Nuala O'Connor president of the Center for Democracy Technology an advocacy group in Washington D C said Facebook was relying on the good will of decent people rather than preparing for intentional misuse. Moreover she found it puzzling that Facebook knew aboutthe abuse in 2015 but did not disclose it until Friday. That's a long time she said Britain's data protection authority and theMassachusetts attorney general on Saturday said they were launching investigations into the use of Facebook data.It is important that the public are fully aware of how information is used and shared in modern political campaigns and the potential impact on their privacy UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said in a statement.Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey office said she wants to understand how the data was used what policies if any were violated and what the legal implications are. 
Here are the weeks top stories and a look ahead. A firm tied to the Trump campaign used  private information including contacts and likes harvested from the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users without their permission. The Times teamed up with The Observer of London for the  investigation into Cambridge Analytica a voter profiling company bankrolled by conservative investors  that worked on the 2016 Trump campaign. Above Christopher Wylie who helped found the company and worked there until 2014. Facebook banned the firm after we started asking about its practices the  firm which paid an outside researcher for the data is facing scrutiny from investigators and  lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic.  Facebook on Sunday faced a backlash about how it protects user data as American and British lawmakers demanded that it explain  how a political data firm with links to President Trumps 2016 campaign was able to harvest private information from more than  50 million Facebook profiles without the social networks alerting users. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota a Democratic member of the Senate Judiciary Committee went so far as to press for Mark Zuckerberg Facebooks chief executive to appear before the panel to explain what the social network knew about the misuse of its data to target  political advertising and manipulate voters. The calls for greater scrutiny followed reports on Saturday in The New York Times and The Observer of London that Cambridge Analytica a political data firm founded by Stephen Bannon and Robert Mercer the wealthy Republican donor had used the Facebook data to develop methods that it claimed could identify the personalities of individual American voters and influence their behavior. The firms so called psychographic modeling underpinned its work for the Trump campaign in 2016 though many have questioned the  effectiveness of its techniques But Facebook did not inform users whose data had been harvested. The lack of disclosure could  violate laws in Britain and in many American states. Damian Collins a Conservative lawmaker in Britain who is leading a parliamentary inquiry into fake news and Russian meddling in the country's referendum to leave the European Union said this weekend that he too  would call on Mr Zuckerberg or another top executive to testify. The social network sent executives who handle policy matters to answer questions at an earlier hearing in February. It is not acceptable that they have previously sent witnesses who seek to avoid answering difficult questions by claiming not to know the answers Mr Collins said in a statement. This also creates a false reassurance that Facebook's stated policies are always robust and effectively policed. The fallout from the reports added to questions Facebook was already confronting over the use of its platform by those seeking to spread Russian propaganda and fake news. The social media giant has grappled with the criticism over the issue for much of the past year and struggled to keep public opinion on its side. Over the weekend Facebook was on the defensive. Top executives took to Twitter to argue that the company's protections had not been breached and that Facebook was thus not at fault. This was unequivocally not a data breach tweeted Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook executive. No systems were infiltrated no passwords or information were stolen or hacked. The data was obtained in 2014 when Cambridge Analytica through an outside researcher paid users small sums to take a personality quiz and download an app which  would scrape some private information from their profiles and from those of their friends activity that Facebook permitted at the time. The approach was based on a technique pioneered at Cambridge University by data scientists who claimed it could reveal more about a person than even their parents or romantic partners knew. The researcher hired by Cambridge Analytica Alexandr Kogan told Facebook and his apps users that he was collecting information for academic purposes not for a political data firm owned by a wealthy conservative. Facebook did nothing to verify how the information was being used Mr Bosworth argued on Twitter that a violation had been committed  only by Cambridge Analytica and Mr Kogan whose app did not follow the data agreements. Facebook's chief security officer Alex Stamos issued a similar defense in a series of tweets that have since been deleted. The recent Cambridge Analytica stories by the NY Times and The Guardian are important and powerful but it is incorrect to call this a breach under any reasonable definition of the term  Mr Stamos tweeted. The explanation did little however to stem the tide of anger as independent researchers pointed out that many  others could have similarly misused Facebook data. Facebook's platform must protect us from predatory behavior wrote a Twitter user named Evan Baily or we cant and shouldn't trust the platform. Jonathan Albright research director at the Tow Center for Digital  Journalism at Columbia University wrote that the lack oversight and transparency into what sort of data Facebook collected on its  users meant that the company's platform could continue to be exploited. Unethical people will always do bad things when we make it easy for them and there are few if any lasting repercussions Mr Albright said. Paul Grewal, a vice president and deputy general counsel at Facebook said in a statement that the company was looking into whether the data in question still existed. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect peoples information he said. This month The Times viewed a set of raw data from the profiles Cambridge Analytica obtained and a former employee of the data firm described having recently seen hundreds of gigabytes of unencrypted data files on Cambridge servers. There were also questions from technology experts and others about Facebook's reaction to the news reports by The Times and The Observer especially its decision to suspend the account of Christopher Wylie, a data expert who oversaw Cambridge Analyticas data harvesting but also spoke out about it to the two news organizations. On Friday, Facebook threatened to sue The Observer to stop it from publishing the newspapers outgoing editor John Mulholland said on Twitter. Then late Friday evening Facebook posted a statement that expressed alarm at the data leak. The company promised to take action and announced that it was suspending the accounts of Cambridge Analytica Mr Kogan and Mr Wylie. By then Facebook had learned that Mr Wylie who left Cambridge Analytica in 2014 was a named source for the  news reports. In a statement on Sunday Mr Wylie described himself as a curious and naive 23 year old when he first went to work for  Cambridge Analytica. I feel a sense of regret every day when I see where they have helped take our world he added. I need to make amends and thats why Im coming forward. His lawyer Tamsin Allen said that last week Mr Wylie offered to help Facebook recover the missing data. Now though Facebook said on Sunday Mr Wylie is refusing to cooperate with the company until the suspension is lifted a move the social network is not willing to make because of his role in the data harvesting. In both Britain and the United States lawmakers said that  in the light of the new reports they wanted fresh answers from both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica about how the data was obtained  and what was done with it. Mr Collins the British lawmaker said he planned to call Alexander Nix the chief executive of Cambridge Analytica to return to Parliament and answer questions about testimony last month in which he claimed that the company never obtained or used Facebook data. It seems clear that he has deliberately misled the committee and Parliament Mr Collins said. In the United States the attorney general of Massachusetts Maura Healey announced on Saturday that her office was opening an  investigation. Massachusetts residents deserve answers immediately from Facebook and Cambridge Analytica she said in a Twitter post that linked to the Times article. Also on Saturday the two top Congressional Democrats leading inquiries into Russian interference  in the 2016 election Senator Mark Warner of Virginia and Representative Adam Schiff of California called for investigations of the  Facebook data leak. This raises serious questions about the level of detail that Cambridge Analytica knew about users said Mr Schiff  who is the ranking Democrat on the House intelligence committee. Facebook said on Sunday it was conducting a comprehensive  internal and external review to determine if the personal data of 50 million users that was reported to be misused by a political consultant still existed. The company said in a statement that it was trying to determine  the accuracy of allegations that a researcher gave the firm Cambridge Analytica inappropriately obtained Facebook user data starting in  2014. In the statement from Paul Grewal a Facebook vice president and deputy general counsel the company said it was committed to  vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information.
Several United States Republican lawmakers expressed concern over privacy violations on Sunday after media reports that a  political consultancy that worked on President Donald Trump's campaign gained inappropriate access to 50 million Facebook users'  data. Republican Senator Marco Rubio said he believed some internet companies have grown too fast to digest their responsibilities  and obligations. So we'll learn more about this in the days to come. But yes I'm disturbed by that Rubio told NBC's Meet the Press. Senator Rand Paul was asked whether people can trust companies like Facebook in the wake of the report about Cambridge Analytica taking data. People have to look into it. Whether or not it broke the law absolutely the privacy of the American consumer the American individual  should be protected Paul said on CNN. Facebook disclosed the issue in a blog post on Friday hours before media reports that conservative  leaning Cambridge Analytica a data company known for its work on Trump's 2016 presidential campaign was given access to the data and  may not have deleted it. Facebook said in a statement that a Cambridge University psychology professor had lied to the company and violated its policies by passing data to Cambridge Analytica from an app he had developed. It suspended the firm from Facebook. Facebook did not  immediately reply when asked on Sunday for a response to the lawmakers' comments. However in a new statement Sunday the company said it was conducting a comprehensive internal and external review to determine if the user data in question still existed Cambridge Analytica and the professor have denied violating Facebook's terms according to media reports. The scrutiny presented a new threat to Facebook's reputation which was already under attack over Russians' use of Facebook tools to sway American voters before and after the 2016 elections. Republican Senator Jeff Flake said he had a lot of questions about the data taken from Facebook including who knew it had been taken and whether it is still being. This is a big deal when you have that amount of data and the privacy violations there are significant he told  CNN's State of the Union program. So the question is who knew it and when did they know it how long did this go on and what happens to that data now. Facebook faced new calls for regulation from Democratic senators on Saturday and was hit with questions about personal data safeguards but it was unclear whether the Republican controlled Congress would act. United States Representative Adam Schiff the top  Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee said more investigation was needed. We need to find out what we can about the misappropriation of the privacy the private information of tens of millions of Americans he said Sunday on ABC's This Week.
Also on ABC Senator James Lankford a Republican said it was not known whether the incident was connected to the Trump campaign. Lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic criticized Facebook and its chief executive Mark Zuckerberg after reports surfaced that  another company Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested information from 50 million Facebook users. A British lawmaker accused Facebook  on Sunday of misleading officials by downplaying the risk of users' data being shared without their consent. Conservative legislator  Damian Collins who heads the British Parliament's media committee said he would ask Zuckerberg or another Facebook executive  to appear before his panel which is investigating disinformation and fake news. Collins said Facebook has consistently understated the risk of data leaks and gave misleading answers to the committee. Someone has to take responsibility for this he said. It's time for  Mark Zuckerberg to stop hiding behind his Facebook page. Collins also accused the head of the UK based data firm Cambridge Analytica Alexander Nix of lying. Nix told the committee last month that his firm had not received data from a researcher accused of obtaining millions of Facebook users' personal information. In Washington Senator Amy Klobuchar a Democrat from Minnesota said on Twitter that  Zuckerberg needs to testify before Senate Judiciary. This is a major breach that must be investigated Klobuchar a member of the  Judiciary Committee said. It's clear these platforms can't police themselves Sen  Mark Warner of Virginia the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee echoed Klobuchar's complaint. This is more evidence that the online political advertising market is  essentially the Wild West he said. It's clear that left unregulated this market will continue to be prone to deception and lacking  in transparency. Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey said on Twitter that Massachusetts residents deserve answers and announced that her office will investigate. The officials reacted to reports in The New York Times and The Guardian of London that Cambridge Analytica which is best known for working on President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign had improperly obtained Facebook user data and  retained it after claiming it had deleted the information. Former Cambridge Analytica employee Chris Wylie said that the company obtained information from 50 million Facebook users using it to build psychological profiles so voters could be targeted with ads and stories. Wylie told Britain's Channel 4 news that the company was able to amass a huge database very quickly from an app developed by an academic that vacuumed up data from Facebook users who agreed to fill out a survey as well as their friends and contacts a process of which  most were unaware. Imagine I go and ask you I say 'Hey if I give you a dollar two dollars could you fill up this survey for me just do it on this app' and you say 'Fine' he said. I don't just capture what your responses are I capture all of the information about you from Facebook. But also this app then crawls through your social network and captures all of that data also Wylie said that allowed the  company to get roughly 50 million plus Facebook records in several months and he criticized Facebook for facilitating the process. Why Facebook didn't make more inquiries when they started seeing that you know tens of millions of records were being pulled this way I don't know he said. Lawmaker Collins said he would summon Nix to reappear before the Parliament committee. It seems clear that he has deliberately misled the committee and Parliament by giving false statements Collins said. AP Business Writer Christopher Rugaber  contributed to this story from Washington.
