NEW YORK —  Facebook's decision to stop working with third-party data collectors might earn it public-relations points, but it does little to protect your privacy. The social network still has more than enough data on your interests and hobbies to target ads with precision.The company will still tap browser and device IDs to track visits to third-party sites and apps. And it will have lots more information from your use of its service — everything from the businesses and hobbies you "like" to the types of news articles you read and share. The data helps Facebook create profile targets — such as college-educated mothers in Detroit who like ice cream and the band Coldplay — for advertisers to reach.Limiting its partnership with data brokers also doesn't touch on the difficulty Facebook has had keeping your data out of the hands of other companies. The social network is in the spotlight following accusations that a data-mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of Facebook users to try to influence elections.Facebook may try to defuse that criticism by saying it's backing off on some data use, said Jon Reily, vice president of commerce strategy at the digital consulting company SapientRazorfish. But, he noted, "they didn't need that sixth wheel on a car anyway."In a clear sign of who needs whom more, shares of Acxiom, a leading data collector that Facebook had contracted with, tumbled 19 percent Thursday. Facebook's stock saw a 4 percent gain, reversing some of the big losses it's suffered since the scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated consulting firm, broke almost two weeks ago.Late Wednesday, Facebook said it was shutting down a type of advertising product that allowed marketers to use data from people's offline lives to target them on Facebook. The information includes categories like home ownership and purchase history and comes from some of the world's largest data brokers, including Acxiom, Epsilon and Experian. The decision came on the same day Facebook said it would make it easier to use its privacy controls and to see the data the company collects on its users.These data brokers have troves of data on credit scores, family status, pet ownership and hobbies, which they glean from surveys, warrantee cards, retail loyalty programs and other sources. Brokers typically don't have a direct relationship with consumers, and how they get the data is often questionable, said Peter Reinhardt, CEO of Segment, a consumer data firm."Removing these brokers is a no-brainer, as they add very little incremental value to advertisers and a lot of rightful scrutiny to Facebook," Reinhardt said.Facebook said shutting down the advertising feature over the next six months "will help improve people's privacy on Facebook." But it wouldn't have stopped Cambridge Analytica from grabbing data inappropriately through an app that purported to be a research tool. Though Facebook has clamped down on apps' ability to get data on your friends, it still lets apps collect plenty of data on you. That isn't changing with Wednesday's moves.And even without direct access to the brokers' data, Facebook was already able to build prediction models based on it, said Kenneth Sanford, lead analytics architect at the data science company Dataiku. So Facebook could use that model to ascertain other characteristics of people who buy Purina cat food, even if Facebook no longer gets data on which users indeed bought Purina."In the beginning, Facebook had a tremendous value in knowing those things they didn't otherwise know," Sanford said. "Over time, they've been able to accumulate that information."Besides data brokers, which will lose a source of revenue, advertisers who don't already have a lot of insights on their own customers might suffer in the short term. Debra Aho Williamson, principal analyst at the research firm eMarketer, said those advertisers might cut their spending on Facebook temporarily, but Facebook will try to shift them to its many other methods of ad targeting.Losing access to purchase history could hurt some advertisers. If Purina wants to target cat lovers on Facebook, it might not know that your spouse does the actual buying — and that any advertising targeted at you might be wasted. But experts think such advertisers will just find other sources for that data to restore such insights.David Ciancio, senior customer strategist at the data science specialist Dunnhumby, said the change means little more than "an extra step for advertisers." The effects on Facebook, he said, will be "relatively marginal."___AP Technology Writer Barbara Ortutay contributed to this report.
LONDON —  I'm 57, with a 30-year-old wife, a fairly new hot water boiler, an old-style television, a petrol car and no kids.Actually, none of that is true. But that is what you might believe if you purchased access to my data from the world's largest information broker by market value.The recent revelation that data miner Cambridge Analytica Ltd. improperly accessed 50 million Facebook users' personal data has heightened public concern about the way companies harvest and use our personal data.I asked Arkansas-based Acxiom Corp., which earns over $800 million a year selling consumer profiles to the world's largest companies, what data and insights it held on me.In Europe and the U.S., companies like Acxiom are allowed to collect data from public and other sources about us. European privacy rules, which are due to be strengthened in coming months, require all data gatherers to disclose to any European who asks what information they hold on them. U.S. law doesn't give Americans the right to this level of disclosure.The result of my inquiry shows how, even with little raw data, companies attempt to build detailed pictures of individuals' finances, relationships, personal interests and purchasing tastes.These profiles now power the elaborate machinery that delivers advertising across the internet, and can also be used to determine what political issues people are interested in and how they might vote.The question is: How accurate are the pictures they sketch?"AFFLUENT FUN SEEKER"Acxiom - like its rivals - operates by gathering publicly available information from sources like the electoral roll, which gives individuals' addresses, and land registry data, which provides details on home ownership such as purchase price and if there is a mortgage on the property.It also buys data from companies that conduct online surveys, as well as websites where you forgot to tick 'don't share with third parties' and other sources. This data is then put into a proprietary model, which produces a list of data points and propensities, such as the likelihood a consumer might visit a betting shop.Acxiom sells access to these profiles to companies that wish to target advertising at potential customers. Acxiom doesn't have a political arm like Cambridge Analytica does, but the two companies do compete for commercial customers.Facebook, in the wake of the scandal over how it handles personal information, said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network. Shares in Acxiom traded down more than 10 percent to $25 following Facebook's announcement.The results for a single individual obviously don't tell us too much about the accuracy of a database that Acxiom says contains 47 million UK profiles and insights into 700 million consumers worldwide.Also, it seems I am a bad data subject since I usually opt out when asked to give companies data sharing rights."Where we have more self-reported, privacy-compliant data about individuals, we can be more accurate. In your case, we held very little of this data and the majority of the variables linked to you, are modelled, based on both your postcode and the household history," Acxiom said in a statement.My Acxiom profile has around 750 individual data fields under a dozen categories from "household composition" to "employment & income" and "lifestyle & interests." It categorizes me as an “affluent fun-seeker.”. The accuracy of that description depends on your definition, I suppose, but some of the information is plain wrong.To start with, I'm 46 years old, not 57. I won't reveal my wife's age, but I will confirm that when I got married at age 34, it wasn't to a teenager. Two children mean we're not "empty nesters," I drive a diesel car and our boiler is more than 15 years old, not less than five years as Acxiom identifies it as.That could be a disappointment for the companies including Tesco supermarket, Twitter, Ford Motor Company and Facebook to whom Acxiom said it may have provided my data in the past year. Or maybe not.PROFILE ERRORSThe fact that my profile contains errors isn't necessarily a problem for marketers said Carol Hargreaves, a professor and director of the Data Analytics Consulting Center at the National University of Singapore.What really matters is the predictions of one's behavior, interests and propensity to buy certain kinds of products."The things you sell to a male of 46 or a male of 57 are the same," Hargreaves said.In some potentially key areas, the data is certainly better than a random guess. It predicted that I had just a 5.2 percent probability of being self-employed, rather than employed. Official data shows around 17 percent of Britons are self-employed.Acxiom's prediction of my household income was also much closer to the actual number than the average published by the Greater London Authority for my electoral ward, or local electoral district, the narrowest official estimate.But if purchase decisions are driven by lifestyle interests, the data collected on me is of little use to marketers.My predicted annual car mileage was 8,000 to 10,000 miles, based on "modelled probability." This figure echoes the 8,405 miles that car breakdown group the RAC says the average London motorist drives each year. But it's over twice my annual mileage.Acxiom incorrectly says I don't have a flat screen television, something it "derived through modeling," even though a UK government report from 2013 says most households do.One in seven Britons is a member of a gym, according to a 2017 industry survey; Acxiom reckons there's a 47.5 percent chance that I am interested in belonging to a gym. My last subscription expired over a decade ago.Acxiom also thinks I am more likely to be interested in crossword puzzles – I haven't done one since the 1980s – than in current affairs, which has been my working life for 20 years.On the positive side, there are indications Acxiom doesn't engage in racial profiling: The company predicts I have a 13.6 percent probability of interest in regularly going to a bar. I asked Hargreaves, the professor, if this seemed a statistically reasonable estimate for an Irish journalist. After she stopped laughing, Hargreaves said accurate predictions hinged on the raw data on which the profile is based.BAND WAGONAcxiom said individual inaccuracies didn't undermine the value of its service."We know from working with leading brands, that data helps them deliver more accurate and relevant marketing to customers at scale... The key factor here is, 'at scale'," it said in a statement.Annabel Kilner, Chief Commercial Officer at furniture retailer MADE.com said consumer data helped firms deliver messages that consumers found relevant."We adopt a test and learn approach to optimizing our campaigns," Kilner said.Xiaojing Dong, associate professor of marketing and business analytics at Santa Clara University in Silicon Valley, said that qualitative predictions like those produced by Acxiom gave advertisers a much better idea of who they are reaching.But Hargreaves said there was concern among some advertisers that the consumer profiles they purchase from data aggregators may not always be worth the large fees involved. Hargreaves said she is about to start working with clients of companies like Acxiom to ascertain whether they were getting value for money."Some of the data vendors are just jumping on the band wagon," she said.The key to accurate profiling, experts said, was good raw data. The best is held by those companies with whom we have the deepest interactions – social media giants like Facebook or Twitter and retailers like Amazon.com.Stephan Lewandowsky, a professor of cognitive psychology at the University of Bristol in Britain, said that explains why companies like Cambridge Analytica would be so eager to access Facebook data."The difference between using the electoral roll and Facebook is that the information we reveal on Facebook is sufficient for a computer program to infer our personality with greater accuracy than our own spouse," he said.(Reporting by Tom Bergin; Editing by Cassell Bryan-Low)
Even as it issues full-page apologies in print newspapers promising ritualistically “to do better,” Facebook and its allies have minimized the importance of the seismic revelation that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked on behalf of the Trump campaign in 2016, had gained access to the private information of about 50 million Facebook users.Some executives have pointed out that the mechanism that until a few years ago allowed a researcher with 270,000 app downloads to have access to 50 million profiles wasn’t exactly a secret, and, besides, Facebook users nominally agreed to the sharing of these profiles so that apps would perform better. The company’s chief security officer, Alex Stamos, took to Twitter to complain that Facebook and other “platforms” were being held to a double standard concerning the profiles, since they may well “have been criticized as monopolists for locking them down.”Others poured cold water on the idea that Cambridge Analytica was able to use these profiles as grist for its research on swaying voters by cracking the code of human intention. Marc Andreessen, the venture capitalist and a Facebook board member, doesn’t tweet anymore, but he “likes” hundreds of tweets a week, a group that recently included a string that mocked the public’s fear that new media forms can be turned into “weapons of total mind control.”Perhaps these are the wrong reasons for outrage, but that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t be outraged. What Facebook is selling to political campaigns is the same thing Uber is selling to its drivers and customers and what YouTube is selling to advertisers who hope to reach an audience of children — namely, the right to bypass longstanding rules and regulations in order to act with impunity.When you look at the Facebook data leak scandal this way, you realize that Facebook’s irresponsibility isn’t merely an abuse of a personal relationship — what its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, called “a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us” — but also an abuse of a civic relationship.Selling relief from government scrutiny of elections is a different kind of threat to the social fabric than selling relief from government scrutiny of commerce, especially in light of our country’s record of denying voting rights to African-Americans. Facebook can’t be allowed to be a tool for enemies of democracy because it fears that regulation could hurt its bottom line.What was valuable about allowing a presidential campaign to evade regulation? Well, to start, we know that Facebook, unlike a small-market TV station, didn’t care about Russians buying political ads, even when they paid in rubles. That’s a shock to our political system, which is meant to protect against foreign interference. But more menacing is the prospect that the Trump campaign and its allies may have been given free license by Facebook to suppress African-American turnout through “dark ad posts” that disappeared after viewing.Shortly before the election, a senior official with the Trump campaign bragged to the Bloomberg reporters Joshua Green and Sasha Issenberg, “We have three major voter suppression operations underway,” which the article described as targeting “idealistic white liberals, young women, and African-Americans.” Brad Parscale, who ran the Trump campaign’s digital advertising, is quoted in the same piece discussing his plan to use dark ad posts of an animation of Hillary Clinton referring in 1996 to some African-Americans as “super predators.” Parscale suggested that the campaign would use this image to discourage a demographic category described by the reporters as infrequent black voters in Florida. “Only the people we want to see it, see it,” he explained. “It will dramatically affect her ability to turn these people out.”Some of the dark Facebook ads, bought by suspected Russian fronts, have been released as part of congressional investigations into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, and these include an ad meant to depress black support for Hillary Clinton by referring to conspiracy theories involving her husband. What other dark Facebook ads might have been placed on behalf of the Trump campaign to suppress black turnout? Were there classic examples of voter suppression, like publishing the wrong Election Day date or falsely warning that you can be arrested at your polling place if you owe payment on a traffic ticket? We don’t know — the dark ads have disappeared and Facebook won’t release them, citing the privacy of its advertisers.Facebook’s vast and well-designed platform offered the Trump campaign and its supporters cheap, direct access to African-American voters — and along with this the chance to mislead and intimidate. In the past, candidates intent on suppressing the black vote ran up against technological barriers. They had to work with fliers and obscure radio ads, since reputable media outlets, unlike Facebook, tended to push back against racially inflammatory, untrue political advertising. Fliers and radio ads leave a public residue, too.The election of 2016, the first after Barack Obama’s presidency, was notable for a seven-percentage-point decrease in African-American turnout, from 66.6 percent in 2012 to 59.6 percent, according to the Pew Research Center. This was the first decline in 20 years in a presidential election and the largest ever recorded. The 2016 turnout rate was also below even the rate for the 2004 election, when John Kerry was the Democratic candidate.At a hearing with the top lawyers from Facebook, Google and Twitter about Russian meddling in the 2016 election, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota began by emphasizing the stakes involved. “I come at this with the simple idea that our democracy was formed to be self-governing,” she said, adding that American citizens have “a right of freedom to make their own decisions — and I think that was interfered with by Russians and also others.”This simple idea of the United States as a self-governing community wasn’t the focus of the many mea culpa interviews Mr. Zuckerberg gave after reports of the data breach. He was focused on the individual. “A lot of the most sensitive issues that we faced today are conflicts between our real values, right?” he said in an interview with Recode. “Freedom of speech and hate speech and offensive content. Where is the line, right?”Todd A. Cox, the director of policy of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, sees the question of our “real values” a bit differently. “There has been a lot of agonizing and struggling over the place of First Amendment,” he told me. “I would like the discussion to turn on what role does the 14th Amendment, the Voting Rights Act, 15th Amendment play” — the guarantees of equal protection under the law and of the right of African-Americans to vote. That is, in addition to Facebook’s libertarian, Silicon Valley perspective that sees only the personal questions — my right to say what I want, my privacy — we must consider the collective questions: How do we protect historically discriminated groups? How do first we make sure everyone is able to speak through free, fair elections before we argue about what they can say?This week, Facebook delayed the release of its home assistant devices and unveiled yet another attempt to make its privacy settings clear and easy to use. “We’ve heard loud and clear that privacy settings and other important tools are too hard to find, and that we must do more to keep people informed,” Facebook’s chief privacy officer, Erin Egan, and deputy general counsel, Ashlie Beringer, said in a statement announcing the new privacy system.Facebook is insistent on seeing its failures as harming individuals, never society as a whole. The legal scholar Alexander Bickel was fond of saying, “No answer is what the wrong question begets.” Facebook has been asking the wrong question consistently for more than a decade, which is why its privacy scandals can seem like the longest running show in Silicon Valley. Recent events have offered us a chance to reframe the question about how to fix Facebook. It is one that all Americans should have a voice in answering.
Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching: Why Trump might have trouble reining in Amazon.Public pension fund wants changes to Facebook’s board.• Trump tweets Amazon does not pay enough taxes.• Another FANG stock took a tumble.• The Trump administration wants to further thwart sensitive Chinese investments.The DealBookAmazon hasn’t responded to President Trump’s latest tweet about the company, and most likely won’t.Mr. Trump’s criticisms, though, are largely mistaken. For a long time, Amazon did not pay state sales tax, but it does so now when it sells its own goods in states that collect it. It is the case, however, that in most states Amazon does not collect sales taxes on goods sold by third parties through its platform. As for the United States Postal Service, Amazon’s business appears to be giving a welcome lift to its package shipping revenue.Still, Amazon cannot quietly hope that such criticism just fades away. Amazon’s rapid growth, immense bargaining power, eye-catching initiatives and estimated 44 percent share of U.S. e-commerce sales make the company vulnerable to accusations that it is too powerful.But if the Trump administration pursues ways to curtail the company, it would meet sizable obstacles.Amazon accounts for only 4 percent of all retail sales in the United States, a recent survey estimated. Its revenue is a third of Walmart’s and, even after its acquisition of Whole Foods, Amazon’s footing in the grocery business is still small.All in all, it would be hard to show that Amazon is pushing prices higher for consumers.Amazon also has a loyal customer base — it has an estimated 90 million Prime members — and the public views it relatively favorably. When the Department of Justice’s antitrust lawyers went after the proposed merger of Time Warner and AT&T, it was not targeting companies that were particularly popular with the public.Still, some Amazon critics see a possible, though small, opening. In theory, an antitrust case could focus on the firms that supply Amazon with goods, according to Christopher L. Sagers, a law professor at Cleveland State University. If a company consistently uses its power to demand a good from suppliers at too low a price, the public could still get hurt. That’s because the supply of the good could decline, its quality degrade, and there may be less innovation in the sector that produces the good, Mr. Sagers said.But anyone bringing that against Amazon would have to explain why Walmart would not be a target, too.— Peter EavisThe investment adviser to New York City’s pension funds is calling for changes to Facebook’s board to address the fallout from Cambridge Analytica’s improper harvesting of information from 50 million users of the social network.New York City’s comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, wrote in a letter addressed to Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann, an independent director at Facebook and the chief executive of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation:New York City’s pension funds, which have more than $193 billion in assets under management, own $895 million of Facebook’s shares, according to the letter. Even with the recent tumble in its shares, Facebook is valued at more than $450 billion.In his letter, Mr. Stringer calls on Facebook’s independent directors to take four steps to help restore investor confidence.Here are the proposed changes:1) Add at least three new independent directors to improve the board’s ability to oversee the evolving risks Facebook faces.2) Name an independent director as chairman, allowing Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive and chairman, to focus on running the company.3) Create a committee of independent directors to oversee the company’s data privacy policies and risks.4) Institute a clawback policy so that the board can “recoup executive pay in the event of violations of law, regulation or company policy.”President Trump spoke out against Amazon on Thursday, saying that the online behemoth does not pay enough taxes and uses the United States postal system “as their Delivery Boy.”The president’s commentary, made in a Twitter post, comes amid reports that Mr. Trump has expressed an interest in reining in the e-commerce business.Amazon and the company’s founder, Jeff Bezos, are among Mr. Trump’s regular Twitter targets. In December, Mr. Trump questioned whether the United States Post Office charges Amazon enough for package deliveries. And in August, Mr. Trump said Amazon hurts taxpaying businesses.Amazon, however, does pay taxes — $412 million in 2016, for instance, according to the company’s report to the Securities and Exchange Commission.Axios reported on Wednesday that Mr. Trump has wondered aloud whether Amazon could be vulnerable to antitrust or competition laws.Amazon shares fell more than 7 percent following that Axios article but recovered some of those losses after a White House official told Reuters that the company faced no particular policy changes. But the administration is always looking at its options, the official added. The stock closed down 4.4 percent Wednesday.Shares were down nearly 2 percent in early trading.Should shareholders worry? The GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives told Bloomberg that this regulatory threat was unlikely to change Amazon’s business model, but it was still “the last thing nervous tech investors wanted to see today.”Retailers, at least, already have some reason to be cheerful.And Amazon has another target market for expansion: housekeeping.Corporate American will start reporting first-quarter results in less than two weeks, and earnings are expected to be big.Analysts estimate that profits at companies in the S.&P. 500 grew 17.3 percent this quarter, according to FactSet. If the forecasts prove accurate that would be highest earnings growth rate since the first quarter of 2011.Perhaps most surprising, is that analysts have grown more optimistic on corporate earnings as the quarter progressed. The earnings forecast for the index rose 5.4 percent from the start of the quarter to the end. Typically, analysts lower their expectations as the quarter progresses. On average, the profit estimates for the index fall 3.7 percent from the start of the quarter to the end.But there are reasons for investors to temper their enthusiasm. Analysts have not been as optimistic about the abilities of companies to increase sales. Revenue is expected to have grown 7.3 percent in the first quarter, up from a 7 percent rate at the start of the quarter.That suggests analysts are not raising estimates because of increased sales. So why are they? Taxes. And the impact tax reform will have on bottom lines should moderate in the coming quarters.That may already be happening. BofA Merrill Lynch’s earnings revision ratio for the S.&P. 500 fell in March for the first time in three months. Of course, the pullback comes after the ratio hits the highest level on record in February, but it does suggest that earnings lift from tax reform has begun to wane.Investors, always willing to believe in technology companies, spent the last three years piling into their shares with abandon. Now the intellectual underpinnings of that rally are being tested.Exhibit A: Facebook, down 20 percent from its recent high.Exhibit B: Nvidia, off 12 percent from its recent high.Exhibit C: Tesla, not a tech stock but in the FANG+ index.Concerns about Tesla’s ability to fund itself can also be seen in the trading of its debt.The WSJ’s Charley Grant explains:Peter Eavis notes that the latest problems for tech giants have raised deeper doubts:Barclays said on Thursday that it agreed to pay $2 billion to settle a lawsuit by United States authorities that accused the British bank of fraudulently misleading the public in the sale of tens of billions of dollars in securities backed by home mortgages.The Justice Department sued the bank in December 2016 after the two sides failed to reach a settlement despite months of talks. The settlement is the latest by a European lender related to residential mortgage-backed securities sold ahead of the financial crisis and follows agreements reached by Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank in late 2016.“I am pleased that we have been able to reach a fair and proportionate settlement with the Department of Justice,” James E. Staley, the Barclays chief executive, said in a news release. “It has been a priority for this management team from the start to resolve these historic issues in a timely and appropriate manner wherever possible.”Two former Barclays executives who were sued along with the bank also have reached settlements, agreeing to pay a combined $2 million, the Justice Department said in a news release.Their lawyers separately said the government’s claims were baseless and each agreed to settle the case without admitting wrongdoing.- Chad BrayTammy Kiely is leaving Goldman Sachs to join Morgan Stanley as global head of semiconductor and auto technology investment banking, according to an internal memo seen by The New York Times.Ms. Kiely, who will be based in Menlo Park, Calif., joined Goldman in 1999 and had headed its semiconductor investment banking team since 2006, becoming a partner in 2014. Before Goldman, she worked at KPMG as a certified public accountant in its information, communications and entertainment practice.She has a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the California Polytechnic State University and an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business.Following her arrival, Mark Edelstone will become chairman of global semiconductor investment banking at Morgan Stanley.The move comes amid a wave of dealmaking among chip makers the past few years.- Chad BrayRevolving door• Equifax has a new C.E.O.: the former G.E. executive Mark Begor. (NYT)• Lior Ron, who helped found the self-driving truck company Otto, has left Uber, which acquired it. (NYT)• A.G. Gangadhar has left G.M.’s self-driving car company, Cruise, after six months as chief technology officer. (Recode)The Advertising Research Foundation gave Cambridge Analytica an award last year. Amid the scandal over Facebook data, it’s thinking again.But the group’s executive, Scott McDonald, said that advertisers cared more about whether the data tech companies offered was accurate than whether they should have collected it.Facebook, for its part, promised yesterday to stop advertisers targeting ads using data from third-party brokers, and to put its user privacy settings in one place, rather than about 20. It’s also rethinking privacy safeguards for forthcoming devices, The Information says.Tim Cook of Apple is calling for privacy regulation: “To me, it’s creepy when I look at something and all of a sudden it’s chasing me all across the web.”And our Kevin Roose considers how to save social media: Facebook could become more of a collective enterprise, social networks could become more like email or users could put an expiry date on information.The tech flyaround• Expect more deals from SoftBank’s Vision Fund. It wants to be the biggest shareholder in 100 tech companies, then consolidate them. It’s nearing a deal for a stake in Swiss Re, too.• The German automakers BMW and Daimler have teamed up to fight Silicon Valley. (NYT)• A Google early-stage venture fund is leading a $6 million investment in a company building software to let cars be driven remotely (by humans). (Bloomberg)• Boeing said it had been hit by WannaCry, the malware that struck in 70 countries last year. (NYT)• Apple facies several lawsuits from consumers for slowing older iPhones to extend battery life. (WSJ)• Warner Music bought Sodatone, a start-up that promises to spot hits early using machine learning. (FT)• How 5G will redraw the map of the wireless industry. (WSJ)While finalizing its plans for trade restrictions, the Trump administration is moving ahead with a more targeted strike against Chinese investment in sensitive American technology.But the Treasury Department faces a challenge if, as planned, it uses the 1977 International Emergency Economic Powers Act.“Just defining what percentage of equity would classify a firm as ‘state-owned’ is difficult, as is the definition of which technologies should be off limits,” the WSJ’s Bob Davis writes. “In some cases, U.S. firms could rely on Chinese ones for innovation, especially in manufacturing.”The political flyaround• A lawsuit arguing that President Trump’s continued business interests violate the Constitution has passed its first test. (NYT)• Republicans’ plan for a second tax cut before the midterm elections has yet to attract much financial support from business. (WaPo)• Treasury bonds remain attractive to investors, but Moody’s argues that the U.S. may have less flexibility for future borrowing. (WSJ)• An infrastructure bill passed before the midterms? Trump administration officials are trying to lower expectations. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump declared the Second Amendment would “never be repealed,” in response to a former Supreme Court justice’s NYT Op-Ed. (NYT)Four women sought police protection against Douglas E. Greenberg, one of Morgan Stanley’s top financial advisers.Executives at the bank knew about his behavior, former employees said, but no action was taken until the NYT raised the issue this week.The bank’s wealth-management division accounts for nearly half Morgan Stanley’s revenue and is seen as its prime source of future profits.With an aging and declining population in Japan, companies have to look elsewhere to grow. Takeda Pharmaceuticals’ potential bid for Shire could be one of the largest acquisitions ever of a Western company by a Japanese buyer.Critics’ corner: It’s not really about cost savings, argues Bloomberg Gadfly’s Chris Hughes: “In reality, the attraction is that Shire is cheap and vulnerable — something other bidders will see.” And the FT’s Lex would welcome that: “There are better potential matches.” AT&T-Time Warner trial update: The head of Turner broadcasting said that his company’s channels would not be used as a weapon against rivals if the deal went through. The judge overseeing the case told the parties to speed up their presentation. And if the deal isn’t completed by Apr. 22, it may cost AT&T  up to $1.1 billion in special redemptions.The deals flyaround• Concho Resources will buy RSP Permian for $9.5 billion, creating a shale-oil colossus and adding to the rush to produce more oil. (NYT)• Renault and Nissan are in talks to merge, unnamed sources said. (Bloomberg)• Vivendi and Elliott Management are tussling over Telecom Italia. (FT)• Stella McCartney has agreed to buy Kering out of her fashion brand, regaining full control. (NYT)• CME Group has offered to buy NEX Group, which operates bond-trading platforms, for $5.4 billion. (WSJ)• The defense contractor CACI International has withdraw its bid for CSRA, which offers information technology services to government agencies and now looks likely to be acquired by General Dynamics. (WaPo)• Silver Lake is taking a $500 million stake in the online personal finance company Credit Karma. (WSJ)• The technology company DocuSign, not yet profitable, has filed for an I.P.O. (WSJ)• Anbang, the insurer seized by the Chinese government, is continuing to offer the small-investor products that fueled its growth. (NYT)• The economics of home buying are getting interesting, with higher mortgage rates, tax changes and a supply-demand imbalance. (NYT)• Wells Fargo is taking a measured approach to the gun debate, its chief executive, Tim Sloan, said — but does not believe a bank can be an “arbiter of what an American can buy.” (Charlotte Observer)• Bumble is suing Match Group, which owns Tinder, accusing it of stealing trade secrets and interfering in Bumble’s business. (Recode)• Deutsche Bank is considering more cuts in its investment bank, unnamed sources say, while its chief executive, John Cryan, has insisted that he’s staying. (Bloomberg)• The Wing, a members’ club for women, is being investigated by New York authorities for discrimination. (NYT)• The C.F.T.C. chairman, J. Christopher Giancarlo, has become a Twitter star — complete with a nickname, “Cryptodad” — over his digital currency views. (Bloomberg)• Investors who lost money on the blood-testing firm Theranos may end up fighting the S.E.C. over its assets. (Bloomberg)We’d love your feedback
Christopher Wylie, the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower, brought Canada into a story that’s drawn intense scrutiny to Facebook this week. And it’s not just because he’s from Victoria, British Columbia.After focusing close attention on the social network with the disclosure that Cambridge used personal data from millions of the social media site’s users without permission to help Donald J. Trump’s election campaign, Mr. Wylie brought a company from his hometown, Aggregate IQ, into the fray this week during testimony before Britain’s Parliament.In his testimony, Mr. Wylie said that Aggregrate, a subsidiary of Cambridge Analytica’s parent, drew on Cambridge’s Facebook data to sway social media opinion in favor of the Leave side in the 2016 British referendum on the European Union vote, and he repeated claims that the Canadian company was used to avoid British campaign spending limits. (The company has denied the claims.)Attention inevitably turned to Mr. Wylie’s activities in Canada. When he was 19, Mr. Wylie worked briefly in the office of Michael Ignatieff, then the Liberal leader. Then early in 2016, when Mr. Trump’s victory was not being widely predicted, Mr. Wylie, through a company called Eunoia Technologies, was given a 100,000 Canadian dollar contract by the Liberal Caucus Research Bureau. Like all of the political parties’ research shops, the bureau is separate from the party’s other operations and is funded by Parliament.Melissa Cotton, the bureau’s managing director, said in a statement that Mr. Wylie did not have access to the party’s data and that he worked on projects that appeared to have involved monitoring social media, identifying issues and analyzing how Liberal members communicate with voters.“Preliminary work was done by Eunoia Technologies but after seeing what was offered, Liberal Caucus Research Bureau decided not to move forward.” Ms. Cotton said, without explaining why it cut ties.Mr. Wylie’s time in Ottawa, however, brought to light something that most people have overlooked. Unlike businesses and the federal government itself, federal political parties aren’t subject to Canada’s internet privacy and data protection laws.Some of those laws date to the 1980s and the federal privacy commissioner, among others, has been calling for a 21st century update. But while Canada lags behind Europe in this area, it’s still well ahead of the United States.The political party exemption came about in part because of a parliamentary tradition of not giving bureaucrats or outside bodies control over a party’s affairs. I called Michael Pal, an assistant law professor at the University of Ottawa who studies election laws and related issues like voter suppression, and asked if it’s time for a change.“Every other sector is covered by privacy laws but political parties,” he said. “They are all using data so I don’t think there is a good argument about why they should be under privacy rules.”As for concerns about encroaching on Parliament, Professor Pal isn’t buying that either. He noted that parties were already “heavily regulated” through Elections Canada and election fund-raising laws.So what’s a Facebook user to do now? My colleague Brian X. Chen, who writes about consumer technology, has offered some guidance on minimizing privacy risks on Facebook, although his overall take on the situation facing Facebook users is a little discouraging:What about deleting old Facebook and Twitter posts? Brian tried it and found that his “delete-everything approach was probably not worth most people’s time. And even after all that time, my Facebook timeline was still decorated with posts that my friends had published about me — including photos from my 21st birthday (need I say more?) — because that content was not mine to delete.”That, of course, leaves the option of quitting social media. And that’s what I’m interested in hearing about from you. Have the last couple of weeks turned your mind toward leaving Facebook or other social media sites? If you’re inclined, do you think it’s possible to leave? And if you leave, what will you lose and what will you gain? Please send your thoughts to nytcanada@nytimes.com.About a year ago, I wrote about how the house where the Dionne quintuplets were born faced an uncertain future. The birth, and survival, of the quints at the height of the Great Depression was both a global sensation and a tale of grave injustice. The girls were taken from their family and made wards of the province of Ontario, ostensibly to protect them from exploitation. But the government turned around and exhibited almost like zoo animals. Millions of visitors viewed them from a special gallery.Other injustices and misfortune followed the five through their lives. The decision by the City of North Bay to turn over the log house to a village without the obvious means to maintain or restore it looked like the latest one.But much has changed in the past year. After a public campaign, North Bay reversed its decision, and the house has been moved to downtown where it will become a museum.And this week, The Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada designated the birth of the quints an event of national historical significance.Carlo Tarini, a friend who acts as the family’s spokesman, told me this week that Annette and Cécile, the two surviving sisters, are doing well, although Cécile was hospitalized for a time in January because of pneumonia.“In the pre-internet decades of the 30s and 40s, the worldwide fascination they sparked as children brings shade to the Kardashian kids popularity,” Mr. Tarini wrote in an email.—The Protestant churches involved in a system that took Indigenous children away from their families to boarding schools apologized for their role in during the 1990s. While the Truth and Reconciliation Commission has asked Pope Francis to follow suit, he rejected the idea.—Alexandre Bissonnette, who killed six men at a mosque in Quebec City last year, pleaded guilty to first degree murder this week. While the move brought relief to survivors and the families of victims, the lack of a trial means that questions about his transformation from university student to killer may go unanswered.—Rusty Staub, le Grand Orange to Montrealers, has died at the age of 73. During his time with the Montreal Expos, Mr. Staub endeared himself to Quebecers on the field.—Peter Munk, who created one of Canada’s biggest business fiascos at Clairtone and then rebounded to build the world’s largest gold mining company, has died at the age of 90 in Toronto.
NEW YORK —  The author of a provocative Facebook memo declaring that growth is justified even if it costs lives says he doesn't actually agree with the memo and wrote it to provoke debate.The 2016 internal memo, titled "The Ugly," was leaked to BuzzFeed this week. In it, Facebook executive Andrew Bosworth said "all the work we do in growth is justified," even if it costs people their lives because they are exposed to bullies or die in a terrorist attack coordinated through Facebook.Bosworth, who goes by "Boz," has been at Facebook since 2006 and serves as the company's vice president in charge of virtual- and augmented-reality efforts. Previously, he was vice president of ads and helped create Facebook features such as Messenger, its news feed and groups.Bosworth tweeted Thursday that the memo was one of the most unpopular things he's written internally, and "the ensuing debate helped shape our tools for the better."In a statement to BuzzFeed that Facebook confirmed, CEO Mark Zuckerberg called Bosworth a "talented leader who says many provocative things," but added the memo was something "that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly.""We've never believed the ends justify the means," Zuckerberg said in the statement. "We recognize that connecting people isn't enough by itself. We also need to work to bring people closer together. We changed our whole mission and company focus to reflect this last year."Facebook is grappling with an unprecedented crisis over allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm, obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. That followed a string of scandals, including revelations that Russia used its platform to meddle in U.S. elections.Facebook is facing new questions about its practice of collecting call and text histories from Android devices. The company has not provided details on why it needed this data or what it did with it, saying only that it was used to improve people's experience on Facebook. It's not clear how the data collection made Facebook users' experience better on Android devices when Facebook couldn't get the same data from iPhones.
MENLO PARK, Calif. —  "We've made a bunch of mistakes." ''Everyone needs complete control over who they share with at all times." ''Not one day goes by when I don't think about what it means for us to be the stewards of this community and their trust."Sound familiar? It's Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg addressing a major privacy breach — seven years ago .Lawmakers in many countries may be focused on Cambridge Analytica's alleged improper use of Facebook data, but the social network's privacy problems go back more than a decade. Here are some of the company's most notable missteps and promises around privacy.2007The social media darling unveils its Facebook Platform to great fanfare. Zuckerberg says app developers can now access the web of connections between users and their friends, a set of connections Facebook calls the "social graph.""The social graph is changing the way the world works," he says .That November, Facebook launches Beacon , which shares what users are doing on other websites with their Facebook friends. Many users find it intrusive and difficult to disable. Massachusetts resident Sean Lane buys his wife a diamond ring for Christmas on Overstock.com, but Facebook ruins the surprise , an incident leading to a class-action lawsuit.In December, Zuckerberg apologizes and enables users to shut off Beacon. "I know we can do better," he says .2008Facebook launches Facebook Connect , aiming to correct Beacon's mistakes by requiring users to take deliberate action before they share activity from other websites when logged in using Facebook. More than 100 websites use the tool at launch, including CNN and TripAdvisor.2009Facebook announces "privacy improvements" after a yearlong review by Canada's Office of the Privacy Commissioner found that it geared its default privacy settings toward openness, failed to inform users their data would be used to serve ads, and leaked data to third party developers, including when their friends used apps. Facebook vows to encourage "users to review their privacy settings" but does not agree to all the recommendations.Beacon is officially shut down, settling Lane's class action lawsuit.The American Civil Liberties Union warns people that Facebook's default settings mean that when a friend uses an app or takes a quiz, the quiz- or app-maker can peer into your profile, even if you've made it private.2010App-makers exhibit a sophisticated grasp of data they can scoop from Facebook's social graph.The Wall Street Journal reports that many popular apps are transmitting personalized Facebook data to dozens of advertising and internet companies, among them, Zynga's breakout game FarmVille. Facebook responds by shutting down some apps.Prior to the Journal report, Facebook says it has redesigned its privacy tools, giving its 400 million users "the power to control exactly who can see the information and content they share.2011The Federal Trade Commission reaches a consent decree with Facebook after an investigation of its broken privacy promises to consumers.The FTC alleges, among other things, that:—Facebook made its users' friend lists public in December 2009, even if they had been set to private, without telling them.—Even if users limited data sharing to "friends only," data was actually shared with third party apps that friends used.—Facebook failed to verify the security of apps it put on a "verified apps" list.—Facebook promised not to share personal information with advertisers, but did.Facebook promises to submit to a privacy audit every two years for the next 20 years, and Zuckerberg owns up to mistakes.2012Facebook introduces new methods to help advertisers reach people in ways "that protect your privacy," including an encryption tool called Custom Audiences that lets marketers match the email addresses of sales leads to the addresses that Facebook users used to set up their accounts.Facebook also rolls out new privacy tools aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls. Among other things, it narrows the scope of app permissions so they don't suck in as much user data automatically.2013Facebook shares two-year-old anonymized data on billions of friendships between countries with Cambridge researcher Aleksandr Kogan and co-authors a research paper with him (published in 2015).Kogan creates a quiz app, installed by around 300,000 people , giving him access to tens of millions of their friends' data.2014Facebook says it dramatically limits the access apps have to friend data, preventing the type of data scoop Kogan and others were capable of. It also requires developers to get approval from Facebook before accessing sensitive data.2015Facebook says it learns from Guardian journalists that Kogan has shared data with Cambridge Analytica in violation of its policies. It bans the app and asks Kogan and Cambridge Analytica to certify they had deleted the data.It rolls out "Security Checkup ," a new tool aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls.2017Facebook introduces "Privacy Basics ," a Frequently Asked Questions site aimed at simplifying its privacy controls.2018Facebook says it learns from The Guardian and other media outlets that Cambridge Analytica did not delete improperly obtained Facebook data and suspends the company, Kogan, and whistleblower Christopher Wylie from its service.Zuckerberg tells CNN that "I'm really sorry that this happened." He promises to audit app makers that gathered massive amounts of data prior to 2014 and to notify affected users. Amid calls for investigations in the U.S. and U.K., the FTC begins investigating whether Facebook broke its 2011 consent decree."Our responsibility now is to make sure that this doesn't happen again," Zuckerberg says.Facebook redesigns its privacy settings menu on mobile devices and says in a blog post, "It's time to make our privacy tools easier to find."___
SAN FRANCISCO —  A Facebook Inc executive said in an internal memo in 2016 that the social media company needed to pursue adding users above all else, BuzzFeed News reported on Thursday, prompting  disavowals from the executive and Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg.The memo from Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook vice president, had not been previously reported as Facebook faces inquiries over how it handles personal information and the tactics the social media company has used to grow to 2.1 billion users.Zuckerberg stood by Bosworth, who goes by the nickname "Boz," while distancing himself from the memo's contents. Bosworth confirmed the memo's authenticity but in a statement he  disavowed its message, saying its goal had been to encourage debate.Facebook users, advertisers and investors have been in an uproar for months over a series of scandals, most recently privacy practices that allowed political consultancy Cambridge Analytica to obtain personal information on 50 million Facebook members. Zuckerberg is expected to testify at a hearing with U.S. lawmakers as soon as April."Boz is a talented leader who says many provocative things. This was one that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly. We've never believed the ends justify the means," Zuckerberg said in a statement.Bosworth wrote in the June 2016 memo that some "questionable" practices were all right if the result was connecting people."That's why all the work we do in growth is justified. All the questionable contact importing practices. All the subtle language that helps people stay searchable by friends," he wrote in the memo, which BuzzFeed published on its website.He also urged fellow employees not to let potential negatives slow them down."Maybe it costs a life by exposing someone to bullies. Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people," he wrote.Bosworth said Thursday that he did not agree with the post today "and I didn't agree with it even when I wrote it."Having a debate around hard topics like these is a critical part of our process and to do that effectively we have to be able to consider even bad ideas, if only to eliminate them," Bosworth's statement said.(Reporting by David Ingram; editing by Grant McCool)
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook employees were in an uproar on Friday over a leaked 2016 memo from a top executive defending the social network’s growth at any cost — even if it caused deaths from a terrorist attack that was organized on the platform.In the memo, Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook vice president, wrote, “Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de facto* good.”Mr. Bosworth and Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, have since disavowed the memo, which was published on Thursday by BuzzFeed News.But the fallout at the Silicon Valley company has been wide. According to two Facebook employees, workers have been calling on internal message boards for a hunt to find those who leak to the media. Some have questioned whether Facebook has been transparent enough with its users and with journalists, said the employees, who asked not to be identified for fear of retaliation. Many are also concerned over what might leak next and are deleting old comments or messages that might come across as controversial or newsworthy, they said.The brouhaha follows a period of intense scrutiny for Facebook and questions over what its responsibilities are to its more than 2.2 billion users. The company has been grappling this month with revelations that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested data from 50 million of the social network’s users. Mr. Zuckerberg has since been on an apology tour over data privacy and is expected to testify before lawmakers in Washington.Facebook did not respond to a request for comment over employees’ reaction to the leaked memo.In the aftermath, some Facebook executives have taken to Twitter for a public charm offensive, sending pithy phrases and emoticons to reporters who cover the company. Adam Mosseri, Facebook’s head of news feed, in recent days wrote unprompted to a BuzzFeed editor and to its chief executive reminiscing and telling a story about his mother. He also wrote to a reporter from the Verge tech site about the songs played at his wedding reception.In some of his tweets, Mr. Mosseri also defended Facebook. When writers from Vox and BuzzFeed tweeted that they noticed that stories critical of Facebook were receiving surprisingly low levels of traffic on Facebook, Mr. Mosseri jumped in.“We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us,” he tweeted.Mr. Bosworth, the author of the 2016 memo, also took to Twitter. Late Thursday, he said he did not agree with what he wrote in the memo “and I didn’t agree with it even when I wrote it.” He added that “the purpose of this post, like many others I have written internally, was to bring to the surface issues I felt deserved more discussion with the broader company.”After BuzzFeed published the memo, Mr. Bosworth deleted it from an internal message board where it had originally been posted. In a statement to BuzzFeed, Mr. Zuckerberg praised Mr. Bosworth as “a talented leader who says many provocative things” and said that he and most people at Facebook did not agree with the memo and that the company had realized that it could not just be about connecting people.Facebook employees said on Friday that discussions were raging across the company regarding the merits of the post. Some called for executives to aggressively pursue action against those leaking to the media, said two Facebook employees, as well as for the company to do more to screen for potential whistle-blowers during the hiring process.At least one former Facebook employee, Alec Muffett, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Bosworth’s memo was responsible for his decision to leave the company.“Between overwork and leadership direction evidenced thusly, I could never stay,” wrote Mr. Muffett, who formerly worked as a Facebook engineer.“There are some amazing engineers working at Facebook, folks who care deeply about user privacy, security, and how people will use the code that they write,” Mr. Muffett said later in a message. “Alas this episode may not help” to achieve more transparent internal product discussion, he said.
As recently as 2010, Mark Zuckerberg, the founder and chief executive of Facebook, believed that privacy was no longer a “social norm.” But over the past few weeks — and not a moment too soon — he and his colleagues have learned that privacy still matters to individuals and society.Revelations about how Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that worked for Donald Trump’s campaign, amassed data about more than 50 million Facebook users without their consent has forced the social media company to tell anyone who will listen that it takes privacy very seriously. Last week, Facebook said it was simplifying and centralizing privacy settings, making it easier for its more than two billion users to change how much personal information they share. That was an important and necessary change, but what we have learned about the data collection practices of social media firms, advertisers, political campaigns, online publishers and other groups suggests that company-specific changes like Facebook’s will be insufficient. What is needed is for Congress to adopt rigorous and comprehensive privacy laws.The technology and advertising industries have long resisted such rules, and neither this Congress nor the Trump administration has shown any interest in privacy. But someday new politicians will be in charge, and now is as good a time as any to begin a serious examination of how American privacy regulations can be strengthened.There’s no need to start from scratch. In 2012, President Barack Obama proposed a privacy bill of rights that included many ideas for giving people more control over their information, making data collection more transparent and putting limits on what business can do with the information they collect. The bill of rights fizzled out when Congress showed little appetite for it. But the European Union has used a similar approach in developing its General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect on May 25.The new European rules are not perfect — they include the so-called right to be forgotten, which allows people to ask companies to delete personal information that they no longer wish to share. That could be implemented in ways that limit free speech. But the Europeans have made progress toward addressing some of the problems that have recently been highlighted in the United States. For instance, their laws require companies to seek consent before collecting sensitive personal information, to make the request understandable, and to give users an easy way to opt in to sharing such data, rather than forcing them to opt out if they don’t want to be tracked. Further, companies that want to collect data about Europeans will have to be upfront about how they use personal data, and they cannot collect more information than they need to provide the services they are offering. The Obama bill of rights included a similar concept, saying that personal information should only be used in “ways that are consistent with the context in which consumers provide the data.”Today, it is standard procedure for many companies to vacuum up as much data as they can by getting users to agree to long, impenetrable terms of service. Companies might not even know how they will use the information being collected but collect it anyway, in case they later develop a specific use for it. Recently, some Facebook users discovered that the company’s Android app had been logging metadata from every incoming and outgoing phone call and text message, in some cases for years. The company said that users had consented to sharing this information and that doing so “helps you find and stay connected with the people you care about, and provides you with a better experience across Facebook.” That statement is positively Orwellian. It’s hard to believe that many people would have given the company access to so much personal data if they actually understood what they were agreeing to.The new European regulation will also let people access their own data, transfer their information from one business to others that provide a similar service and delete it altogether under certain circumstances. Companies will have to notify customers within 72 hours if they become aware of a breach of personal information.Many businesses will struggle to comply with the European Union’s new rules, and officials in member countries will have a hard time enforcing it consistently. “We will have a learning curve,” said Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, who heads France’s privacy regulator, the Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés. “We will have to adjust.”But it is increasingly clear that businesses will figure out how to live with and make money under tougher privacy rules. Some companies are also planning to apply some or all of the data protection requirements to all of their customers, not just Europeans. And other countries have or are considering adopting similar rules. Throughout history, meatpackers, credit card companies, automakers and other businesses resisted regulations, arguing they would be ruined by them. Yet, regulations have actually benefited many industries by boosting demand for products that consumers know meet certain standards.Facebook and other internet companies fear privacy regulations, but they ought not to. Strong rules could be good for them as well as for consumers.
