Facebook has a problem it just can't kick. People keep exploiting it in ways that could sway elections and in the worst cases even undermine democracy. News reports that Facebook let the Trump affiliated data mining firm  Cambridge Analytica abscond with data from tens of millions of users mark the third time in roughly a year the company appears to  have been outfoxed by crafty outsiders in this way. Before the Cambridge imbroglio there were Russian agents running election related propaganda campaigns through targeted ads and fake political events. And before the Russians took center stage there were purveyors of fake news who spread false stories to rile up hyper partisan audiences and profit from the resulting ad revenue. In the previous cases  Facebook initially downplayed the risks posed by these activities. It only seriously grappled with fake news and Russian influence after sustained criticism from users experts and politicians. In the case of Cambridge Facebook says the main problem involved the transfer of data to a third party not its collection in the first place. Each new issue has also raised the same enduring questions about Facebook's conflicting priorities to protect its users but also to ensure that it can exploit their personal details to fuel its hugely lucrative and precisely targeted advertising business. Facebook may say its business model is to connect the world but it's  really to collect psychosocial data on users and sell that to advertisers said Mike Caulfield a faculty trainer at Washington State  University who directs a multi university effort focused on digital literacy. Late Friday Facebook announced it was banning Cambridge an outfit that helped Donald Trump win the White House saying the company improperly obtained information from 270000 people who  downloaded a purported research app described as a personality test. Facebook first learned of this breach of privacy more than two years ago but hasn't mentioned it publicly until now. And the company may still be playing down its scope. Christopher Wylie a former Cambridge employee who served as a key source for detailed investigative reports published Saturday in The New York Times and The Guardian said the firm was actually able to pull in data from roughly 50 million profiles by extending its tentacles to the unwitting  friends of app users. Facebook has since barred such secondhand data collection by apps Wylie said he regrets the role he played in what he called a full service propaganda machine. Cambridge's goal he told the Guardian in a video interview was to use the Facebook data to build detailed profiles that could be used to identify and then to target individual voters with personalized political  messages calculated to sway their opinions. It was a grossly unethical experiment Wylie said. Because you are playing with an entire country. The psychology of an entire country without their consent or awareness. Cambridge has denied wrongdoing and calls Wylie a disgruntled former employee. It acknowledged obtaining userdata in violation of Facebook policies but blamed a middleman contractor for the problem.  The company said it never used the data and deleted it all once it learned of the infraction an assertion contradicted by Wylie and now under investigation by Facebook. Jonathan Albright research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University  said Facebook badly needs to embrace the transparency it has essentially forced on its users by sharing their habits likes and dislikes with advertisers. Albright has previously noted cases in which Facebook deleted thousands of posts detailing Russian influence on its  service and underreported the audience for Russian posts by failing to mention millions of followers on Instagram which Facebook  owns. Facebook is withholding information to the point of negligence he said Saturday. How many times can you keep doing that before it gets to the point where you're not going to be able to wrangle your way out. The Cambridge imbroglio also revealed what appear to be loopholes in Facebook's privacy assurances particularly regarding third party apps.
Facebook appears to have no technical way to enforce privacy promises made by app developers leaving users little choice but to simply trust them. In fact the enforcement actions outlined in Facebook's statement don't address prevention at all just ways to respond to violations after they've occurred. On Saturday Facebook continued to insist that the Cambridge data collection was not a data breach because everyone involved gave their consent to share their data. The purported research app followed Facebook's existing privacy rules no systems were surreptitiously infiltrated and no one stole passwords or sensitive information without permission. To Facebook the only real violation was the transfer of information collected for research to a third party such as Cambridge Experts  say that argument only makes sense if every user fully understands Facebook's obscure privacy settings which often default to maximal data sharing. It's a disgusting abuse of privacy said Larry Ponemon founder of the privacy research firm Ponemon Institute. In general  most of these privacy settings are superficial he said. Companies need to do more to make sure commitments are actually met Jesdanun  reported from New York Good morning.
An advertising trade group that gave an award to Cambridge Analytica last year for its “big data” work during the 2016 presidential election is now urging marketers to reconsider the ethics of how consumer information is collected and used. The trade group, the Advertising Research Foundation, said it was waiting for more information before formally rescinding the award given to Cambridge Analytica, the British political consulting firm that was recently reported to have improperly harvested the data of 50 million Facebook userS The revelations have brought intense criticism of Facebook, which is facing inquiries from lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic around how it handles user information, and have many people taking a closer look at the role of data in online advertising. "We’ve tended to assume that because you can do something, you should,” Scott McDonald, chief executive of the ad group, said in an interview on Tuesday.  He added that advertisers had been more concerned with the accuracy and validity of data they received from technology companies than with asking whether they should be collecting that data and using it to target consumers in the first place. Mr McDonald addressed the Cambridge Analytica situation and the need for new guidelines during a speech on Wednesday morning at the group’s annual convention in New York. Things were much different last year, when Cambridge Analytica won a gold prize at the foundation’s David Ogilvy Awards, which have been given annually since 1994. The firm was honored for its work for the Trump campaign, in which it identified and advertised to undecided voterSThe selection, made by a jury of ad industry leaders, was “very controversial because of the nature of the campaign,” Mr McDonald said.  But the ad group viewed itself as “Switzerland,” he said, and was simply conducting “a scientific evaluation of the quality of work. ”“Nobody had any idea the data might have been pilfered,” he said.  Mr McDonald said he planned to potentially poll the jury again and “see if the accusations are sustained” before officially stripping Cambridge Analytica of the award. The existence of the award highlights the enthusiasm with which marketers have approached the reams of consumer data generated by digital devices and their belief that people are happy to share whatever information technology may be collecting from them. The Advertising Research Foundation, which acknowledged that the United States may adopt new regulations on how consumer data is collected, said it planned to work with other industry groups to form new guidelines for collecting and protecting that information.  Mr McDonald said advertising had gone too far in viewing consumers as prey, noting that even the industry’s vocabulary had become militarylike. “We talk about ad campaigns, consumers we target.  We talk about subway takeovers, pop-ups,” he said.  “These are fairly aggressive, and I don’t think we even think about it — they’re just embedded in the metaphors of advertising. ”As a start-up called Cambridge Analytica sought to harvest the Facebook data of tens of millions of Americans in summer 2014, the company received help from at least one employee at Palantir Technologies, a top Silicon Valley contractor to American spy agencies and the Pentagon. It was a Palantir employee in London, working closely with the data scientists building Cambridge’s psychological profiling technology, who suggested the scientists create their own app — a mobile-phone-based personality quiz — to gain access to Facebook users’ friend networks, according to documents obtained by The New York TimeSCambridge ultimately took a similar approach.  By early summer, the company found a university researcher to harvest data using a personality questionnaire and Facebook app.  The researcher scraped private data from over 50 million Facebook users — and Cambridge Analytica went into business selling so-called psychometric profiles of American voters, setting itself on a collision course with regulators and lawmakers in the United States and Britain. [Read more about the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower contending that data-mining swung the Brexit referendum. ]The revelations pulled Palantir — co-founded by the wealthy libertarian Peter Thiel — into the furor surrounding Cambridge, which improperly obtained Facebook data to build analytical tools it deployed on behalf of Donald J.  Trump and other Republican candidates in 2016. Mr Thiel, a supporter of President Trump, serves on the board at Facebook. “There were senior Palantir employees that were also working on the Facebook data,” said Christopher Wylie, a data expert and Cambridge Analytica co-founder, in testimony before British lawmakers on Tuesday. Cambridge Analytica has found itself confronting a deepening crisis since reports about the firm’s data harvesting were published this month in The New York Times, The Observer of London and The Guardian. The connections between Palantir and Cambridge Analytica were thrust into the spotlight by Mr Wylie’s testimony on Tuesday.  Both companies are linked to tech-driven billionaires who backed Mr Trump’s campaign: Cambridge is chiefly owned by Robert Mercer, the computer scientist and hedge fund magnate, while Palantir was co-founded in 2003 by Mr Thiel, who was an initial investor in Facebook. The Palantir employee, Alfredas Chmieliauskas, works on business development for the company, according to his LinkedIn page.  In an initial statement, Palantir said it had “never had a relationship with Cambridge Analytica, nor have we ever worked on any Cambridge Analytica data. ” Later on Tuesday, Palantir revised its account, saying that Mr Chmieliauskas was not acting on the company’s behalf when he advised Mr Wylie on the Facebook data. “We learned today that an employee, in 2013-2014, engaged in an entirely personal capacity with people associated with Cambridge Analytica,” the company said.  “We are looking into this and will take the appropriate action. ”The company said it was continuing to investigate but knew of no other employees who took part in the effort.  Mr Wylie told lawmakers that multiple Palantir employees played a role. Documents and interviews indicate that starting in 2013, Mr Chmieliauskas began corresponding with Mr Wylie and a colleague from his Gmail account.  At the time, Mr Wylie and the colleague worked for the British defense and intelligence contractor SCL Group, which formed Cambridge Analytica with Mr Mercer the next year.  The three shared Google documents to brainstorm ideas about using big data to create sophisticated behavioral profiles, a product code-named “Big Daddy. ”A former intern at SCL — Sophie Schmidt, the daughter of Eric Schmidt, then Google’s executive chairman — urged the company to link up with Palantir, according to Mr Wylie’s testimony and a June 2013 email viewed by The TimeS“Ever come across Palantir.  Amusingly Eric Schmidt’s daughter was an intern with us and is trying to push us towards them?” one SCL employee wrote to a colleague in the email. MS Schmidt did not respond to requests for comment, nor did a spokesman for Cambridge Analytica. In early 2013, Alexander Nix, an SCL director who became chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, and a Palantir executive discussed working together on election campaignSA Palantir spokeswoman acknowledged that the companies had briefly considered working together but said that Palantir declined a partnership, in part because executives there wanted to steer clear of election work.  Emails reviewed by The Times indicate that Mr Nix and Mr Chmieliauskas sought to revive talks about a formal partnership through early 2014, but Palantir executives again declined. In his testimony, Mr Wylie acknowledged that Palantir and Cambridge Analytica never signed a contract or entered into a formal business relationship.  But he said some Palantir employees helped engineer Cambridge’s psychographic modelS“There were Palantir staff who would come into the office and work on the data,” Mr Wylie told lawmakerS “And we would go and meet with Palantir staff at Palantir. ” He did not provide an exact number for the employees or identify them. Palantir employees were impressed with Cambridge’s backing from Mr Mercer, one of the world’s richest men, according to messages viewed by The TimeS And Cambridge Analytica viewed Palantir’s Silicon Valley ties as a valuable resource for launching and expanding its own businesSIn an interview this month with The Times, Mr Wylie said that Palantir employees were eager to learn more about using Facebook data and psychographicS Those discussions continued through spring 2014, according to Mr Wylie. Mr Wylie said that he and Mr Nix visited Palantir’s London office on Soho Square.  One side was set up like a high-security office, Mr Wylie said, with separate rooms that could be entered only with particular codeS The other side, he said, was like a tech start-up — “weird inspirational quotes and stuff on the wall and free beer, and there’s a Ping-Pong table. ”Mr Chmieliauskas continued to communicate with Mr Wylie’s team in 2014, as the Cambridge employees were locked in protracted negotiations with a researcher at Cambridge University, Michal Kosinski, to obtain Facebook data through an app Mr Kosinski had built.  The data was crucial to efficiently scale up Cambridge’s psychometrics products so they could be used in elections and for corporate clientS“I had left field idea,” Mr Chmieliauskas wrote in May 2014. “What about replicating the work of the cambridge prof as a mobile app that connects to facebook?” Reproducing the app, Mr Chmieliauskas wrote, “could be a valuable leverage negotiating with the guy. ”Those negotiations failed.  But Mr Wylie struck gold with another Cambridge researcher, the Russian-American psychologist Aleksandr Kogan, who built his own personality quiz app for Facebook.  Over subsequent months, Dr Kogan’s work helped Cambridge develop psychological profiles of millions of American voterSLONDON —  The suspended chief executive of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, will appear before a British parliamentary committee, the Culture, Media and Sport Committee said on Wednesday. Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target US and British voterSThe session will be Nix's second appearance before the committee and is likely to take place on April 17.(Reporting by William James, editing by Elizabeth Piper)BOGOTA —  Colombia, which will hold presidential elections in May, on Wednesday blocked access to a cell phone application it said might be connected with Cambridge Analytica, the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United StateSLawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target US and British voters in close-run electionSColombia's commerce regulator said in a statement it would block an application called Piggi, which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and recommending their friendS The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined, the regulator said. Attempts to reach Farrow for comment were unsuccessful.  A number listed for Farrow in Colombia belongs to another company.  There is no listed number for the Mexico branch of the company. "As a preventative measure and taking into account the potential risk of a wrongful and massive illegal use of the personal data of thousands of Colombians collected via the download of the Piggi application, the application Piggi is temporarily blocked while appropriate investigations are undertaken and definitive decisions adopted," the regulator said. The regulator did not specify what evidence it had of a connection between Cambridge Analytica and Farrow.  The application will be blocked on the Google Play app store and on social media, as will websites where it can be downloaded. The regulator added it has requested cooperation and information from its counterparts in the United States, United Kingdom, European Union and Mexico. Facebook announced a series of changes on Wednesday to give users more control over their data, after the scandal wiped more than $100 billion from its stock market value. Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in US President Donald Trump's campaign, and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. Colombia will hold presidential elections on May 27.
NEW DELHI —  India's government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian voters and users has been compromised by  UK based Cambridge Analytica or any other downstream entity. A similar notice was dispatched to Cambridge Analytica last week following media reports that it had misused data to profile Indians and influence their elections.  The government set a Saturday deadline for Cambridge Analytica and April 7 for Facebook to respond to its inquiry. Facebook is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that the data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections. India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said in a statement late Wednesday that Facebook has its largest footprint in India in terms of its user base and sought to know "what proactive measures it is taking to ensure the safety, security and privacy of such large user data and to prevent its misuse by any third party. "The governing Bharatiya Janata Party and the main opposition Congress Party have accused each other of utilizing the services of the British company, but denied any link with it.  Cambridge Analytica's allegedly unauthorized harvesting of Facebook data and a series of leaks linked to India's biometric database has refocused public attention on digital privacy in the country. Digital law experts say Indian regulations offered particularly weak safeguards against data breach. The Indian government's notice to Facebook sought to know "whether Facebook or its related or downstream agencies utilizing Facebook's data have previously been engaged by any entities to manipulate the Indian electoral process. If any such downstream entity misused data from Facebook, what is the protection available to the data subject?" it asked.
NEW YORK —  To get an idea of the data Facebook collects about you, just ask for it.  You'll get a file with every photo and comment you've posted, all the ads you've clicked on, stuff you've liked and searched for and everyone you've friended — and unfriended — over the yearSThis trove of data is used to decide which ads to show yoU It also makes using Facebook more seamless and enjoyable — say, by determining which posts to emphasize in your feed, or reminding you of friends' birthdaySFacebook claims to protect all this information, and it lays out its terms in a privacy policy that's relatively clear and concise.  But few users bother to read it.  You might be surprised at what Facebook's privacy policy allows — and what's left unsaid. Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, got data inappropriately from millions of Facebook userS While past privacy debacles have centered on what marketers gather on users, the stakes are higher this time because the firm is alleged to have created psychological profiles to influence how people vote or even think about politics and society. Facebook defends its data collection and sharing activities by noting that it's adhering to a privacy policy it shares with userS Thanks largely to years of privacy scandals and pressure from users and regulators, Facebook also offers a complex set of controls that let users limit how their information is used — to a point. You can turn off ad targeting and see generic ads instead, the way you would on television or in a newspaper.  In the ad settings, you'd need to uncheck all your interests, interactions with companies and websites and other personal information you don't want to use in targeting.  Of course, if you click on a new interest after this, you'll have to go back and uncheck it in your ad preferences to prevent targeting.  It's a tedious task. As Facebook explains, it puts you in target categories based on your activity.  So, if you are 35, live in Seattle and have liked an outdoor adventure page, Facebook may show you an ad for a mountain bike shop in your area. But activity isn't limited to pages or posts you like, comments you make and your use of outside apps and websiteS"If you start typing something and change your mind and delete it, Facebook keeps those and analyzes them too," Zeynep Tufekci, a prominent techno-sociologist, said in a 2017 TED talk . And, increasingly, Facebook tries to match what it knows about you with your offline data, purchased from data brokers or gathered in other wayS The more information it has, the fuller the picture of you it can offer to advertiserS It can infer things about you that you had no intention of sharing — anything from your ethnicity to personality traits, happiness and use of addictive substances, Tufekci said. These types of data collection aren't necessarily explicit in privacy policies or settingSWhat Facebook does say is that advertisers don't get the raw data.  They just tell Facebook what kind of people they want their ads to reach, then Facebook makes the matches and shows the adSApps can also collect a lot of data about you, as revealed in the Cambridge Analytica scandal.  The firm got the data from a researcher who paid 270,000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well, bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million. Facebook says Cambridge Analytica got the data inappropriately — but only because the app said it collected data for research rather than political profiling.  Gathering data on friends was permitted at the time, even if they had never installed the app or given explicit consent. Ian Bogost, a Georgia Tech communications professor who built a tongue-in-cheek game called "Cow Clicker" in 2010, wrote in The Atlantic recently that abusing the Facebook platform for "deliberately nefarious ends" was easy to do then.  What's worse, he said, it was hard to avoid extracting private data. If "you played Cow Clicker, even just once, I got enough of your personal data that, for years, I could have assembled a reasonably sophisticated profile of your interests and behavior," he wrote.  "I might still be able to; all the data is still there, stored on my private server, where Cow Clicker is still running, allowing players to keep clicking where a cow once stood. "Facebook has since restricted the amount of types of data apps can accesS But other types of data collection are still permitted.  For this reason, it's a good idea to check all the apps you've given permissions to over the yearS You can also do this in your settingSSAN FRANCISCO/LONDON —  Opinion polls published on Sunday in the United States and Germany indicated that a majority of the public were losing trust in Facebook over privacy, as the firm ran advertisements in British and US newspapers apologizing to userSFewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey US privacy laws, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday, while a survey published by Bild am Sonntag, Germany’s largest-selling Sunday paper, found 60 percent of Germans fear that Facebook and other social networks are having a negative impact on democracy. Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg apologized for "a breach of trust" in advertisements placed in papers including the Observer in Britain and the New York Times, Washington Post and Wall Street Journal. "We have a responsibility to protect your information.
The world's largest social media network is coming under growing government scrutiny in Europe and the United States, and is trying to repair its reputation among users, advertisers, lawmakers and investorSThis follows allegations that the British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect US President Donald Trump in 2016.US Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in an interview on NBC’s Meet the Press" on Sunday that Facebook had not been "fully forthcoming" over how Cambridge Analytica had used Facebook data. Warner repeated calls for Zuckerberg to testify in person before US lawmakers, saying Facebook and other internet companies had been reluctant to confront “the dark underbelly of social media” and how it can be manipulated. "BREACH OF TRUST"Zuckerberg acknowledged that an app built by a university researcher had "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014". "This was a breach of trust, and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time," Zuckerberg said, reiterating an apology first made last week in US television interviewSFacebook shares tumbled 14 percent last week, while the hashtag #DeleteFacebook gained traction online. The Reuters/Ipsos online poll found that 41 percent of Americans trust Facebook to obey laws that protect their personal information, compared with 66 percent who said they trust Amazon. com Inc, 62 percent who trust Alphabet Inc's Google, 60 percent for Microsoft Corp. The poll was conducted from Wednesday through Friday and had 2,237 responses. The German poll published by Bild was conducted by Kantar EMNID, a unit of global advertising holding company WPP, using representative polling methods, the firm said.  Overall, only 33 percent found social media had a positive effect on democracy, against 60 percent who believed the opposite. It is too early to say if distrust will cause people to step back from Facebook, eMarketer analyst Debra Williamson said in an interview.  Customers of banks or other industries do not necessarily quit after losing faith, she said. "It's psychologically harder to let go of a platform like Facebook that's become pretty well ingrained into people's lives," she said. Data supplied to Reuters by the Israeli firm SimilarWeb, which measures global online audiences, indicated that Facebook usage in major markets and worldwide remained steady over the past week. "Desktop, mobile and app usage has remained steady and well within the expected range," said Gitit Greenberg, SimilarWeb's director of market insightS "It is important to separate frustration from actual tangible impacts to Facebook usage. "(Additional reporting by William James in London, Dustin Volz in Washington DC.  and Chris Kahn in New Editing by Kevin Liffey)(Reuters) - Facebook Inc, responding to reports in some technology industry media that it has been logging users' call and text history without their permission, said in a statement on Sunday that the function "has always been opt-in only. "The social media site said that when the feature is enabled by the user and contact information is uploaded, the platform can then use the given data when a call or text was made or received with Facebook Lite and Facebook Messenger serviceSFacebook specified that it does not collect the content of calls or text messages and information is securely stored.  This data is not sold to third parties, Facebook's statement said. "You may have seen some recent reports that Facebook has been logging people's call and SMS (text) history without their permission.  This is not the case," Facebook's statement said. The Verge website reported that some Twitter users said they found months or years of call history data in their downloadable Facebook data file.  Ars Technica reported Facebook requested access to contacts, SMS data and call history on Android devices to improve its friend recommendation algorithm. "Call and text history logging is part of an opt-in feature for people using Messenger.  While we receive certain permissions from Android, uploading this information has always been opt-in only," the world's largest social media network said. "People have to expressly agree to use this feature," the statement said. The leaders of the US House of Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee on Friday wrote to Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg detailing new concerns about the social media company's use of data and formally requesting that he testify at a hearing. Facebook is under pressure from governments, investors and advertisers following allegations by a whistleblower that British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed users' information to build profiles on American voters that were later used to help elect US President Donald Trump in 2016.(Reporting by Shalini Nagarajan in Bengaluru; editing by Grant McCool)NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO —  Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey US privacy laws, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday, illustrating the challenge facing the social media network after a scandal over its handling of personal information. The poll, taken Wednesday through Friday, also found that fewer Americans trust Facebook than other tech companies that gather user data, such as Apple Inc, Alphabet Inc's Google, Amazon Inc, Microsoft Corp and Yahoo. Some 41 percent of Americans trust Facebook to obey laws that protect their personal information, compared with 66 percent who said they trust Amazon, 62 percent who trust Google, 60 percent for Microsoft and 47 percent for Yahoo. The Reuters Ipsos poll was conducted online in English throughout the United StateS It gathered responses from 2,237 people and has a credibility interval, a measure of accuracy, of 2 percentage points. Facebook, the world's largest social media firm, has been offering apologies as it tries to repair its reputation among users, advertisers, lawmakers and investors for mistakes that let 50 million users' data get into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.  Facebook shares tumbled 14 percent last week, while the hashtag Delete Facebook gained traction online and the company's chief executive officer, Mark Zuckerberg, faced demands that he appear before US lawmakers to testify in a hearing. Zuckerberg and Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, said last week that shoring up trust was their priority.  "We know this is an issue of trust.  We know this is a critical moment for our company," Sandberg told CNBC on Thursday. It is too early to say if distrust will cause people to step back from Facebook, eMarketer analyst Debra Williamson said.  Customers of banks or other industries do not necessarily quit after losing faith, she said. "It's psychologically harder to let go of a platform like Facebook that's become pretty well ingrained into people's lives," she said. One reason that Facebook and other internet companies collect personal information from users is to deliver advertisements for products and services to people who are most likely to want them. Facebook, with more than 2 billion monthly active users, made almost all its $40.6 billion in revenue last year from advertising. The poll found that many people take a dim view of those "targeted" advertisementSSome 63 percent said they would like to see "less targeted advertising" in the future, while 9 percent said they wanted more.  When asked to compare them with traditional forms of advertising, 41 percent said targeted ads are "worse" while 21 percent said they are "better. ""I think they make a lot of assumptions that are not true," poll respondent Maria Curran, 56, who lives near Manchester, New Hampshire, said in a follow-up interview. "It's like if I show an interest in healthy eating, all of a sudden all of the ads are about weight control and exercise and how to lose weight.  I just get inundated," she said. Curran said she knows online retailer Amazon. com also collects her information for targeted marketing, but that it is less annoying because it is a shopping site, not a place for personal conversationSAnother poll respondent, Kamaal Greene, 26, said he likes targeted ads better than traditional ones because they provide a service, steering him to products he wantS"A while ago I was looking for a special kind of glove for my job," said Greene, a firefighter from Detroit. "I put it in my Amazon cart and forgot about it.  Then, later, the ad popped up on Facebook, and I was like 'oh shoot. It reminded me and I clicked on it and bought it. "A plurality of adults said they would like the government to take a bigger role in overseeing the industry's handling of user information.  According to the poll, 46 percent of adults said they want more government regulation, while 17 percent said they want lesS Another 20 percent said they wanted no change, and the remaining 18 percent said they did not know. (Reporting by Chris Kahn in New York and David Ingram in San Francisco; Editing by Leslie Adler)SAN FRANCISCO —  The quartet of technology stocks that has driven Wall Street indices to record highs in recent years may be breaking up, possibly undermining one of the best growth stories in a nine-year bull market. Facebook and Google-parent Alphabet tumbled this week as the benchmark S&P 500 index fell back toward lows seen in February, when the index gave back more than 10 percent in 10 days after reaching a record high in January. Netflix and Amazon, which along with Facebook and Alphabet make up the so-called "FANG" stocks, did not do as badly as the S&P 500 index this week, falling 4.0 percent, compared to the index's 6.0 per cent fall. But growing concerns about potential government regulation in the US and Europe in response to privacy issues have investors assessing whether they may be forced to choose between those technology stocks leading the new economy. "The big, consumer-facing tech companies have been stock market leaders for years, and this could be the beginning of the end of that leadership.  However, the long-term tech growth story is far from over," Guild Investment Management Executive Vice President Tim Shirata wrote in a note this week. The outcry over Facebook's handling of users' data this week has bled $75 billion from the social media company's stock market value, with concerns about potential regulation of internet companies also hurting Alphabet. Facebook fell 13 percent for the week and is down nearly 20 percent from its record high, while Alphabet lost nearly 10 percent this week and is 14 percent off its record high. Amazon lost nearly 10 percent also for the week but is only 8 percent off its record, while Netflix lost 5.4 percent and is nearly 10 percent from its high. Apple, which became a stock portfolio cornerstone following the iPhone's debut in 2007, is also about 10 percent off its record high. Amazon this week overtook Alphabet as the world's second largest company by market capitalization at around $747 billion compared to $730 billion for Alphabet, but is still behind the largest company Apple worth $860 billion, according to Reuters data. "The FANG complex needs to go away," said Joel Kulina, senior vice president of institutional cash equities at Wedbush.  "You can't compare Facebook and Google to Amazon anymore because they're going in different directions and disrupting different parts of the world. "Illustrative of the consumer and political backlash against Facebook, the world's largest social media network, the verified Facebook page of rocket company SpaceX disappeared on Friday, minutes after its founder and Silicon Valley billionaire Elon Musk promised on Twitter to take down the page when challenged by a user. Since February 2013, when CNBC television host Jim Cramer popularized the term FANG to describe the four must-own stocks, each has provided massive rewards to investors, with Facebook and Amazon gaining over 400 percent, Netflix climbing over 1,000 percent, and Alphabet nearly tripling its stock price. STILL MOSTLY BULLISHCriticism about the misuse of Facebook and Alphabet's platforms during the 2016 US presidential campaign has worried investors for several monthSEuropean governments are already taking action to deal with risks to the privacy of user data, as well to limit what is seen as unfair competition in a move reminiscent of regulatory action against Microsoft nearly 20 years ago. Regulatory risk became a bigger issue this week after the revelation that Facebook mistakenly let 50 million users' data get into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica. Longer term though investors remain mostly bulllish on all four stocks and this week's privacy scandal has not led analysts to meaningfully change their expectations for Facebook or Alphabet's stockSInvestors disagree about which FANG stocks will lead in the future. Gullane Capital Partners, a hedge fund in Memphis, Tennessee, owns Amazon and Alphabet, and has occasionally shorted Netflix in recent years, betting the streaming company's meteoric rise would be followed by a steep pullback. "I want to own Amazon for the next 25 yearS It's the most powerful business since Wal-Mart or Microsoft in their heydays," said Gullane Capital Managing Partner Trip Miller. Miller attributed recent selling in Facebook, which his fund does not own, more to profit-taking than to a seismic change in how the company is viewed on Wall Street. The growing divergence in views on the four Wall Street powerhouses comes as investors more broadly reduce their appetite for the technology stocks which have led Wall Street's rally in recent yearSThe Philadelphia Semiconductor Index on Friday slumped 3.3 percent, hammered by fears of a trade war with China after President Donald Trump on Thursday unveiled tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goodSIn the latest week ended Wednesday March 21, US-based technology sector funds attracted just $158 million of net new cash, down sharply from inflows of $1.95 billion the previous week, according to Lipper data on Thursday. Guild Investment Management's Shirata recommends buying technology stocks less likely to catch the eye of government regulators, and he pointed to networking, videogames and cloud computing companieS"In all these areas, prospects for long-term growth still look stunningly good.
