LONDON — The whistle-blower Christopher Wylie held a roomful of British lawmakers rapt for three and a half hours on Tuesday, like a pink-haired, nose-ringed oracle sent from the future to explain data.In testimony to the House of Commons’ select committee on culture, Mr. Wylie, a 28-year-old Canadian, described the inner workings of SCL, a political consultancy that gave its clients access to a vast collection of personal information harvested from Facebook.In one of the longest sessions in recent memory, Mr. Wylie made a number of jaw-dropping assertions, most significantly that the company’s exploitation of personal data had swung the results of Britain’s 2016 referendum on leaving the European Union. He also suggested that his predecessor at Cambridge Analytica was murdered.But mostly, Mr. Wylie tried to explain data-mining. He looked like a cerebral skate-rat, which might in other circumstances have undermined his credibility, but in this case it seemed to help. He was polite. He resembled, as one journalist put it, “a patient grandson trying to set up a Skype call with his gran.”His message was clear: If you aren’t already worried about how your personal data is being used, now would be a good time to start. “The way I like to think of it, data is the electricity of our new economy, and electricity can be quite dangerous,” he said. “We enjoy the benefits of electricity, despite the fact that it can literally kill you.”Cambridge Analytica released a statement describing Mr. Wylie as “a part-time contractor who left in July 2014 and has no direct knowledge of our work or practices since then.” It said Cambridge Analytica, a subsidiary of the SCL political consultancy, did not use its cache of data in Donald J. Trump’s 2016 campaign, and had no involvement in the European Union referendum that ended with a victory for those who support withdrawal, or Brexit, from the bloc.Mr. Wylie’s testimony bluntly contradicted that of his former boss, Alexander Nix, who has recently appeared before the same committee twice. Mr. Wylie said a cluster of pro-Brexit organizations employed a Canadian subsidiary company, Aggregate IQ, which provided them with SCL’s store of data.“I think it is completely reasonable to say that there could have been a different outcome of the referendum had there not been, in my view, cheating,” he said.He also suggested that Russian intelligence agencies could have easily scooped up the company’s vast library of data on American voters in advance of the 2016 elections in the United States, because Aleksandr Kogan, the scientist who collected it, made regular return trips to Russia.“Put a key logger in Kogan’s computer in Russia and you’ve got everything,” Mr. Wylie said. He added: “It would make it incredibly easy for them to get access to this data. For me, that’s concerning and I think it should be looked into.”Mr. Wylie’s appearance has coincided with a surge of collective dismay over data-mining, and many found themselves riveted by his testimony on Tuesday. Georgia Rakusen, 33, a user researcher at a technology firm in London, urged her Twitter followers to tune into the hearing, which she called “absolutely gripping stuff.”His testimony, she said, “was something that, as a lay person, you could watch and start to grasp the enormity of how your data is used.”“I think maybe people are just beginning to open up, to realize that maybe it’s not just about ads, maybe it’s not just what bands I like,” she said. Ms. Rakusen, who described her own work as “a space where we are supposed to make people click more,” said she hoped that employees of large technology companies would come forward more, looking at whistle-blowers like Mr. Wylie and Edward J. Snowden.“I didn’t watch the whole three and a half hours,” she said. “But I basically didn’t get any other work done during that time.”Mr. Wylie, who has described himself a “gay Canadian vegan,” dropped out of high school but discovered a genius for coding and, still in his teens, began working for political campaigns. He came close to losing his composure at only one moment on Tuesday, when he was asked what prompted him to turn against the technology he had helped create. He said his views had changed when Mr. Trump was elected.“It was no longer this niche, shady firm,” he said. “It was a firm that was making a massive impact on the world. It’s a process of coming to terms with what you have created, and the impact that has had.”“I am incredibly remorseful for my role in setting it up,” he added, his voice wavering. “I’m the first person to say that I should have known better. But what’s done is done.”He was caustic on the subject of his former boss, Mr. Nix, who he said enjoyed the colonial challenge of manipulating the affairs of less developed countries. He recalled that once, they were late to a meeting because Mr. Nix had to collect a chandelier he had bought for $283,000.“You have to remember that a lot of these people are very wealthy already,” he said. “The thing that I learned is for certain wealthy people, they need something to keep them occupied. They need projects. And for certain wealthy people, going into the developing world and running a country is something that appeals to them.”At times, he seemed slightly pitying of British officials who are investigating data-mining, saying they did not have enough resources and lacked a “robust technical background.”“I have had to explain and re-explain and re-explain and re-explain, you know, how relational databases work, what is an eigenvector, what is dimensionality reduction,” he said.“They have been working really, really hard. But as a point of observation, one of the weak points that I’ve seen — again, this is an empathetic criticism — is the lack of technical people,” he said, apparently searching for a polite way to say it. “They have had to ask me a lot of questions that a database engineer would not ask.”
WASHINGTON — For 10 days, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has been under increasing pressure from lawmakers and regulators to answer questions about the improper harvesting of data of 50 million Facebook users by a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica.Now Mr. Zuckerberg plans to go to Washington to explain himself.The chief executive has agreed to testify in at least one congressional hearing over the social network’s handling of customer data, according to people familiar with the decision. Specifically, he plans to appear next month before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the arrangements were not public. Mr. Zuckerberg may make other appearances; he has also been asked to testify before the Senate and House Judiciary and Commerce Committees.His appearing on Capitol Hill could create a spectacle that is replayed online and on television for years to come, especially amid a backlash against the power of tech behemoths. Late last year, executives from Facebook, Google and Twitter showed up at congressional hearings to discuss Russian meddling online in the 2016 presidential election, putting faces to the tech platforms during criticism of their misuse.Congressional testimony by Silicon Valley chief executives is rare, and their appearances have each set off a media circus. In 2013, Apple’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, addressed senators about his company’s tax practices. In 2011, Google’s chairman at the time, Eric Schmidt, spoke about the company’s search practices in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee. And in 1998, Bill Gates, who was Microsoft’s chief executive, defended his company against lawmakers’ assertions that he was building a monopoly — an argument he eventually lost in court.“The committee is continuing to work with Facebook to determine a day and time for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify,” said Elena Hernandez, a spokeswoman for the House Energy and Commerce Committee.CNN earlier reported that Mr. Zuckerberg had decided to testify in front of Congress.He has been under pressure to appear before Congress since reports on March 17 that Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained and used the data of 50 million Facebook users. The revelations immediately sparked a furor on both sides of the Atlantic, with regulators in Britain and the United States calling for Mr. Zuckerberg to discuss what happened.Those calls haven’t subsided, even though the chief executive issued a public statement last week outlining the steps that Facebook was taking to prevent improper  harvesting of the data of its 2.2. billion users. On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that it was investigating how Facebook handles information about its users. Politicians including Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, have also pressed for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear on Capitol Hill.Mr. Zuckerberg has turned down some requests to go before lawmakers. He declined to appear this week before the British Parliament and answer questions about data privacy.Facebook staff have held marathon meetings and phone calls with staff from congressional committees over the past week, according to Facebook employees and others briefed on the matter. Rob Sherman, Facebook’s deputy chief privacy officer, and Molly Cutler, its associate general counsel, have met with staff from the House and Senate Commerce, Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, they said.Mr. Zuckerberg initially resisted speaking to Congress, and had asked if a senior Facebook executive could be sent to represent the company in his name, two Facebook employees familiar with the conversations said.After the public outcry over Facebook’s data and privacy settings, Mr. Zuckerberg was persuaded that he needed to appear, they said. In recent days, he told Facebook employees that he had come to understand he would have to testify.In an interview with CNN last week, Mr. Zuckerberg said that he would be “happy to” testify in front of Congress and that “it’s the right thing to do.” He added of Cambridge Analytica, “This was a major breach of trust, and I’m really sorry that this happened.”Google and Twitter have also been called to testify before Congress on data privacy. The companies didn’t respond to requests for comment.Lawmakers have been frustrated in the past by Mr. Zuckerberg’s absence from hearings. Last year, Facebook sent its general counsel, Colin Stretch, to join lawyers from Twitter and Google to testify about social media’s role in spreading disinformation during the 2016 election. Lawmakers noted the absence of senior executives, including Mr. Zuckerberg, and repeatedly challenged Facebook to send its leaders to answer questions.In a recent interview, Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, said Mr. Zuckerberg needed to directly answer questions from Congress about what kind of user data was being gathered and shared, because Facebook has been too vague about its practices. He said the attorneys for Facebook, Google and Twitter who testified about the 2016 election had “dodged questions.”“They didn’t say a damn thing, which was what they were paid to do,” Mr. Kennedy said. “I’d encourage Mr. Zuckerberg to do the common-sense thing and roll up his sleeves and take a meaningful amount of time talking to us about this.”
LONDON —  A Cambridge Analytica whistleblower said on Tuesday that Canadian company AggregateIQ worked on software called Ripon which was used to identify Republican voters ahead of the 2016 U.S. presidential election.AggregateIQ did not immediately respond to request for comment on the remarks by Christopher Wylie, a whistleblower formerly of British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Wylie has previously disclosed how users' data from Facebook was used by Cambridge Analytica to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump.Ripon, the town in which the Republican Party was founded in 1854, was the name given to a tool that let a campaign manage its voter database, target specific voters, conduct canvassing, manage fundraising and carry out surveys."There's now tangible proof in the public domain that AIQ actually built Ripon, which is the software that utilised the algorithms from the Facebook data," Wylie told the British Parliament's Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee.AggregateIQ told Reuters on March 24 that it had never been and is not a part of Cambridge Analytica nor ever entered into a contract with Cambridge Analytica.It said it works in full compliance within all legal and regulatory requirements and had never knowingly been involved in any illegal activity.Cambridge Analytica said on Tuesday that it had not shared any of the Facebook profile data procured by a Cambridge academic with AggregateIQ. It said it had not had any communication with AggregateIQ since December 2015.(Reporting by Alistair Smout, Andy Bruce and Eric Auchard, editing by Guy Faulconbridge)
LONDON —  The computer expert who alleges a trove of Facebook data was improperly used to help Donald Trump's White House bid said Tuesday that he strongly believes the information was also used by the Brexit movement that persuaded Britain to quit the European Union.In a 3½-hour hearing, Chris Wylie told the House of Commons media committee that he believes the breach exceeded the 50 million Facebook users reported earlier — though he didn't give an exact figure. And he said the data compiled by the political consulting business Cambridge Analytica was available to other firms with links to it."All kinds of people had access to the data," said Wylie, who helped develop Cambridge Analytica's methods for using the information to target and persuade voters. "It was everywhere."Among the companies that had access to the data was AggregateIQ, a Canadian political consultant that did work for Vote Leave, the official campaign backing Britain's withdrawal from the EU, Wylie said.Wylie described Cambridge Analytica as just one arm of a global company, SCL Group, that gets most of its income from military contracts but is also a political gun-for-hire, often in countries where democratic institutions are weak. He suggested the company combines computer algorithms and dirty tricks to help candidates win regardless of the cost.The 28-year-old Canadian with a swath of pink hair says he helped set up Cambridge Analytica in 2013. He left the next year.Wylie has previously alleged that Cambridge Analytica used personal data improperly collected from Facebook users to help Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.Cambridge Analytica says none of the Facebook data was used in its work on the Trump campaign. It denies any wrongdoing.Cambridge Analytica's acting CEO, Alexander Tayler, said in a statement that Wylie was a part-time contractor who "has no direct knowledge of our work or practices" since he left the company.Wylie said he "absolutely" believes AggregateIQ drew on Cambridge Analytica's databases for its work on the Brexit campaign. In the closely fought referendum in 2016, 51.9 percent of voters backed Britain's departure from the EU."I think it is incredibly reasonable to say that AIQ played a very significant role in Leave winning," Wylie said.He testified that AggregateIQ was formed when Cambridge Analytica sought to expand but Canadians he wanted to bring into the business didn't want to relocate to Britain. The two firms shared underlying technology and worked so closely together that Cambridge Analytica staff often referred to the Canadian firm as a "department," he said.Because of the links between the two companies, Vote Leave got the "the next best thing" to Cambridge Analytica when it hired AggregateIQ, "a company that can do virtually everything that (Cambridge Analytica) can do but with a different billing name," Wylie said.AggregateIQ, based in Victoria, British Columbia, issued a statement saying it has never been part of Cambridge Analytica or SCL."AggregateIQ works in full compliance within all legal and regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where it operates," the company said. "All work AggregateIQ does for each client is kept separate from every other client."Wylie's testimony came a day after Wylie and two other former insiders presented 50 pages of documents that they said proved Vote Leave violated election finance rules during the referendum campaign.They allege that Vote Leave circumvented spending limits by donating 625,000 pounds ($888,000) to the pro-Brexit student group BeLeave, which then sent the money directly to AggregateIQ.Vote Leave denies breaking any campaign finance regulations. Dominic Cummings, the Vote Leave strategist, called Wylie a "fantasist-charlatan."
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc chief executive Mark Zuckerberg will appear before the U.S. Congress to answer questions on data privacy and other issues, but it is not clear to which committee or committees he will testify, a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday.The Senate Judiciary Committee has invited Zuckerberg to testify at an April 10 hearing along with the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc.The House Energy and Commerce Committee and Senate Commerce committees have also asked him to testify but have not set dates.Members of Congress want answers on how 50 million users’ data got into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.(Reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by James Dalgleish)
LONDON —  A scandal engulfing Facebook over the use of its data by political consultants widened on Tuesday when a whistleblower said Canadian company AggregateIQ had developed a program to target Republican voters in the 2016 U.S. election.Christopher Wylie, who previously revealed that consultancy Cambridge Analytica had accessed the data of 50 million Facebook users to build voter profiles on behalf of Donald Trump's campaign, said AggregateIQ (AIQ) had built software called Ripon to profile voters.Wylie was giving evidence to a British parliamentary committee over the scandal, minutes after Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg declined to appear before the legislators to discuss what went wrong.The head of the committee called Zuckerberg's decision "astonishing" and urged him to think again.CNN said Zuckerberg had decided to testify before the U.S. Congress.The revelations around Facebook data have hammered the stock price of the world's biggest social network and raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers and lead to tougher regulation."There's now tangible proof in the public domain that AIQ actually built Ripon, which is the software that utilized the algorithms from the Facebook data," Wylie told the British Parliament's Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee.Facebook is facing intense scrutiny after Wylie's revelations about improper use of personal data and the role that could have played in the 2016 U.S. election.Zuckerberg apologized last week for the mistakes Facebook had made and promised tougher steps to restrict third-party access to such information.Ripon, the Wisconsin town where the Republican Party was founded in 1854, was the name given to a tool that let a campaign manage its voter database, target specific voters, conduct canvassing, manage fundraising and carry out surveys.AggregateIQ did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the remarks. The company previously told Reuters that it had never been and is not a part of Cambridge Analytica nor ever entered into a contract with Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica said it had not shared any of the Facebook profile data with AggregateIQ.The Canadian federal agency charged with protecting privacy rights of individuals said on Tuesday that it has contacted its counterpart in British Columbia to discuss the provincial office's review of AggregateIQ.ABSOLUTELY ASTONISHINGWith the scandal around Facebook widening, Britain's cross-party media committee had invited Zuckerberg to parliament to explain how personal data had ended up in the hands of  Cambridge Analytica, the London-based political consultancy which was working on the Trump campaign.The company said he had asked one of his deputies to attend the hearing in London, suggesting that Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer or Chief Product Officer Chris Cox had the expertise to answer questions on the complex subject."These issues must be addressed at the most senior levels of the company by those in an authoritative position," wrote Rebecca Stimson, head of public policy, Facebook UK."As such Mr Zuckerberg has personally asked one of his deputies to make themselves available to give evidence in person to the committee."Damian Collins, the head of Britain's media committee, asked the company to rethink. "Given the extraordinary evidence that we've heard so far today... it is absolutely astonishing that Mark Zuckerberg is not prepared to submit himself to questioning," he said.Wylie was also quizzed on the use of data in the 2016 Brexit referendum, which has become a hot topic in Britain.Whistleblowers have has said the main campaign for leaving the EU broke the law on spending limits by spending money with another Brexit campaign group that it was closely affiliated with, a claim denied by senior Brexit campaigners.Vote Leave denies any wrongdoing.(Additional reporting by Eric Auchard; editing by Guy Faulconbridge and Adrian Croft)
NEW YORK —  Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before U.S. Congress, a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday, as he bows to pressure from lawmakers insisting he explain how 50 million users' data ended up in the hands of a political consultancy.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about the company's privacy practices after a whistleblower said consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.Facebook said the company had received invitations to testify before Congress and that they were talking to legislators.Facebook shares closed down 4.9 percent on Tuesday and have fallen almost 18 percent since March 16, when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled to Cambridge Analytica, which was hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.The tech sector is down 5.2 percent for March and on track for its worst month since April 2016. The data breach has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers and lead to tougher regulation.House Energy and Commerce Committee spokeswoman Elena Hernandez said "The committee is continuing to work with Facebook to determine a day and time for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify".On the same day, Zuckerberg turned down British lawmakers' invitations to explain to a British parliamentary committee what went wrong.The company said it would instead send one of his deputies, suggesting that Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer or Chief Product Officer Chris Cox had the expertise to answer questions on the complex subject.The head of the committee called Zuckerberg's decision "astonishing" and urged him to think again.Christopher Wylie, the whistleblower who once worked at Cambridge Analytica, said on Monday that Canadian company AggregateIQ had developed the software that used the algorithms from the Facebook data to target Republican voters in the 2016 U.S. election.AggregateIQ did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wylie's remarks. Cambridge Analytica said it had not shared any of the Facebook profile data with AggregateIQ.Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in Trump's campaign, and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.In full-page advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers this week Zuckerberg said the app built by a university researcher "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014".He apologized last week for the mistakes the company had made and promised to restrict developers' access to user information as part of a plan to protect privacy.The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee said on Monday it had invited Zuckerberg, as well as the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy.The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee had already formally asked Zuckerberg to appear at a congressional hearing.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission took the unusual step of announcing on Monday that it had opened an investigation into the company - which it generally only does in cases of great public interest - citing media reports that raise what it called "substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook."(Writing by Susan Thomas; Editing by James Dalgleish)
LONDON —  The Latest on the Facebook privacy scandal (all times local):11:30 p.m.Published reports say Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is planning to testify before Congress about how his company collects and uses people's data.CNN is citing unnamed sources in a report Tuesday that Zuckerberg has "come to terms" with the fact that he'll have to testify in a matter of weeks. A Facebook representative said the company has received invitations to appear before congress and is talking to legislators.Zuckerberg said last week in a CNN interview that he'd be "happy to" testify if he is the right person to do it. The company is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that a data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections.___2 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is snubbing a summons from a British Parliamentary committee investigating the rise of fake news, offering to send senior executives in his place.Damian Collins, chairman of Parliament's media committee, urged Zuckerberg to "think again" Tuesday about choosing not to appear and repeated an offer to have him testify via video link.Facebook has offered to send chief technology officer Mike Schroepfer or chief product officer Chris Cox.Zuckerberg is also under pressure to appear before U.S. Congress following allegations that consultants Cambridge Analytica harvested details of 50 million Facebook users and used the material in U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 election.___1:50 p.m.The computer expert who sparked a global debate over electronic privacy has told lawmakers that the official campaign backing Britain's exit from the European Union had access to data that was inappropriately collected from millions of Facebook users.Christopher Wylie previously alleged that Cambridge Analytica used data harvested from more than 50 million Facebook users to help U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign.Wylie told the House of Commons' media committee on Tuesday that he "absolutely" believed Canadian campaign consultant AggregateIQ had drawn on Cambridge Analytica's databases for its work on the EU referendum.He told the committee: "You can't have targeting software that doesn't access the database. Cambridge Analytica would have a database and AIQ would access that database, otherwise the software wouldn't work."___9:55 a.m.The whistleblower at the heart of the Facebook privacy scandal is set to testify before British lawmakers investigating the increasing rise of fake news.Christopher Wylie has alleged that Cambridge Analytica harvested details of 50 million Facebook users and used the material in U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign. It is alleged the material made it possible to micro-target users with campaign material.At a news conference on Monday on a linked issue, Wylie declined to answer questions about whether the data was also used in Britain by the campaign to leave the European Union. He said he would discuss the matter when he spoke to lawmakers from Parliament's media committee on Tuesday.
LONDON —  British lawmakers still want to question Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg over how millions of users' details got into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica after the company said it would send another executive to appear before them."We would still like to hear from Mr Zuckerberg as well," lawmaker Damian Collins, who heads parliament's Digital, Culture, Media and Sport committee, said on Tuesday."We will seek to clarify with Facebook whether he is available to give evidence or not as that wasn't clear from our correspondence and if he is available to give evidence then we will be happy to do that either in person or by video link."(Reporting by Alistair Smout; writing by Costas Pitas; editing by Stephen Addison)
(Reuters) - A U.S. judge has ordered Facebook Inc to let her review documents it has refused to give the Internal Revenue Service as that agency probes whether the social media company used an Irish unit to slash billions of dollars from its tax bill.In an order on Tuesday night, U.S. Magistrate Judge Laurel Beeler in San Francisco said she may review up to 15 of the 153 disputed documents, which Facebook believes are privileged or otherwise confidential. The government may select the documents for her to review.According to the government, most of the documents concern a decision by Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg and other Facebook executives to set up an international headquarters in Dublin, Ireland, which occurred in 2010, and the transfer of assets such as worldwide user bases and online platforms there.Facebook was warned by the IRS in July 2016 that the probe could boost its U.S. tax bill by $3 billion to $5 billion, plus interest and penalties, for tax years beginning in 2010. It said last month it has set aside adequate amounts for the probe.The Menlo Park, California-based company declined to comment on Wednesday.Beeler issued her order amid an unrelated worldwide outcry over Facebook's privacy practices, including the harvesting of user data by the London-based Cambridge Analytica research firm that worked on Donald Trump's 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.Facebook said on Dec. 12 it would stop booking international revenue in Ireland, and instead have local affiliates book such revenue in countries where it was generated.In making that change, which it expected to complete by the first half of 2019, Facebook cited a desire to "provide more transparency to governments and policy makers around the world."The company in 2016 routed 12.6 billion euros (US$15.5 billion) of revenue through Ireland but paid just 30 million euros (US$37 million) of taxes there, published reports said.The case is U.S. v Facebook Inc et al, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, No. 16-03777.(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Tom Brown)
