As Facebook grapples with outrage over its role in the harvesting of data from 50 million accounts, the company’s chief data security officer is on the way out.We’re told the executive, Alex Stamos, above, had pushed for more transparency but met resistance from other senior leaders. The F.T.C. is also investigating whether Facebook violated a data privacy agreement.And Cambridge Analytica, the data firm involved, has suspended its C.E.O. It worked for both the Trump and Brexit campaigns.
SAN FRANCISCO — The contemporary internet was built on a bargain: Show us who you really are and the digital world will be free to search or share.People detailed their interests and obsessions on Facebook and Google, generating a river of data that could be collected and harnessed for advertising. The companies became very rich. Users seemed happy. Privacy was deemed obsolete, like bloodletting and milkmen.Now, the consumer surveillance model underlying Facebook and Google’s free services is under siege from users, regulators and legislators on both sides of the Atlantic. It amounts to a crisis for an internet industry that up until now had taken a reactive, whack-a-mole approach to problems like the spread of fraudulent news and misuse of personal data.The recent revelation that Cambridge Analytica, a voter profiling company that had worked with Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign, harvested data from 50 million Facebook users, raised the current uproar, even if the origins lie as far back as the 2016 election. It has been many months of allegations and arguments that the internet in general and social media in particular are pulling society down instead of lifting it up.That has inspired a good deal of debate about more restrictive futures for Facebook and Google. At the furthest extreme, some dream of the companies becoming public utilities. More benign business models that depend less on ads and more on subscriptions have been proposed, although it’s unclear why either company would abandon something that has made them so prosperous.Congress might pass targeted legislation to restrict consumer data use in specific sectors, such as a Senate bill that would require increased transparency in online political advertising, said Daniel J. Weitzner, director of the Internet Policy Research Initiative at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.There are other avenues still, said Jascha Kaykas-Wolff, the chief marketing officer of Mozilla, the nonprofit organization behind the popular Firefox browser, including advertisers and large tech platforms collecting vastly less user data and still effectively customizing ads to consumers.“They are just collecting all the data to try to find magic growth algorithms,” Mr. Kaykas-Wolff said of online marketers. This past week, Mozilla halted its ads on Facebook, saying the social network’s default privacy settings allowed access to too much data.The greatest likelihood is that the internet companies, frightened by the tumult, will accept a few more rules and work a little harder for transparency. And there will be hearings on Capitol Hill.The next chapter is also set to play out not in Washington but in Europe, where regulators have already cracked down on privacy violations and are examining the role of data in online advertising.The Cambridge Analytica case, said Vera Jourova, the European Union commissioner for justice, consumers and gender equality, was not just a breach of private data. “This is much more serious, because here we witness the threat to democracy, to democratic plurality,” she said.Although many people had a general understanding that free online services used their personal details to customize the ads they saw, the latest controversy starkly exposed the machinery.Consumers’ seemingly benign activities — their likes — could be used to covertly categorize and influence their behavior. And not just by unknown third parties. Facebook itself has worked directly with presidential campaigns on ad targeting, describing its services in a company case study as “influencing voters.”“People are upset that their data may have been used to secretly influence 2016 voters,” said Alessandro Acquisti, a professor of information technology and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University. “If your personal information can help sway elections, which affects everyone’s life and societal well-being, maybe privacy does matter after all.”In interviews, Mr. Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, seemed to accept the possibility of increased privacy regulation, something that would have been unlikely only a few months ago. But some trade group executives also warned that any attempt to curb the use of consumer data would put the business model of the ad-supported internet at risk.“You’re undermining a fundamental concept in advertising: reaching consumers who are interested in a particular product,” said Dean C. Garfield, chief executive of the Information Technology Industry Council, a trade group in Washington whose members include Amazon, Facebook, Google and Twitter.If suspicion of Facebook and Google is a relatively new feeling in the United States, it has been embedded in Europe for historical and cultural reasons that date back to the Nazi Gestapo, the Soviet occupation of Eastern Europe and the Cold War.“We’re at an inflection point, when the great wave of optimism about tech is giving way to growing alarm,” said Heather Grabbe, director of the Open Society European Policy Institute. “This is the moment when Europeans turn to the state for protection and answers, and are less likely than Americans to rely on the market to sort out imbalances.”In May, the European Union is instituting a comprehensive new privacy law, called the General Data Protection Regulation. The new rules treat personal data as proprietary, owned by an individual, and any use of that data must be accompanied by permission — opting in rather than opting out — after receiving a request written in clear language, not legalese.Mélanie Voin, a spokeswoman for the European Commission, said the protection rules will have more teeth than the current 1995 directive. For example, a company experiencing a data breach involving individuals must notify the data protection authority within 72 hours and would be subject to fines of up to 20 million euros or 4 percent of its annual revenue.In a January speech in Brussels, Facebook’s Ms. Sandberg said, “We know we can’t just meet the G.D.P.R., but we need to do even more.” Google declined to comment.The United States does not have a consumer privacy law like the General Data Protection Regulation. But after years of pushing for similar legislation, privacy groups said that recent events were giving them new momentum — and they were looking to Europe for inspiration.“With the new European law, regulators for the first time have real enforcement tools,” said Jeffrey Chester, the executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a nonprofit group in Washington. “We now have a way to hold these companies accountable.”But any ambitions for new rules may run into the realities of the tech industry.Privacy advocates and even some United States regulators have long been concerned about the ability of online services to track consumers and make inferences about their financial status, health concerns and other intimate details to show them behavior-based ads. They warned that such microtargeting could unfairly categorize or exclude certain people.In 2010, for instance, the Federal Trade Commission proposed a new option for consumers, called Do Not Track. Two years later, the Barack Obama administration introduced a blueprint for a Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights, intended to give Americans more control over what personal details companies collected from them and how the data was used.But the Do Not Track effort and the privacy bill were both stymied.Industry groups successfully argued that collecting personal details posed no harm to consumers and that efforts to hinder data collection would chill innovation. Instead, the advertising industry created a program to allow consumers to opt out of having their data used for customized ads, although it does not allow people to entirely opt out of having their data collected.“If it can be shown that the current situation is actually a market failure and not an individual-company failure, then there’s a case to be made for federal regulation” under certain circumstances, said Randall Rothenberg, chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade group.The business practices of Facebook and Google were reinforced by the fact that no privacy flap lasted longer than a news cycle or two. Nor did people flee for other services. That convinced the companies that digital privacy was a dead issue.If the current furor dies down without meaningful change, critics worry that the problems might become even more entrenched. When the tech industry follows its natural impulses, it becomes even less transparent.That would hamper any long-term understanding of the relationship between social media and political views, an urgent question in Germany, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, the United States and many other places.“To know the real interaction between populism and Facebook, you need to give much more access to researchers, not less,” said Paul-Jasper Dittrich, a German research fellow in digital economy at the Jacques Delors Institute.There’s another reason Silicon Valley tends to be reluctant to share information about what it is doing. It believes so deeply in itself that it does not even think there is a need for discussion. The technology world’s remedy for any problem is always more technology.“If Facebook and Google were merely interested in maximizing profits, we could regulate them,” said Maciej Ceglowski, who runs Tech Solidarity, a labor advocacy group. “But well-intentioned people can break things not easy to fix. It’s like a child running a bulldozer. They don’t have any sense of the damage they can do.”
Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, gave an unexpected interview to two of our reporters about the Cambridge Analytica scandal.Not everyone was impressed by Mr. Zuckerberg’s statements, days after we broke the story that data from over 50 million profiles had been secretly scraped. “He avoided the big issue,” an analyst said, “which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy.”On “The Daily” podcast, one of the reporters who interviewed Mr. Zuckerberg described how it went. (Facebook’s outreach was so sudden, they had to ask him to hold the line while they read his just-posted public statement.)
On March 16, as the buzzer sounded in perhaps the worst upset in N.C.A.A. tournament history, and my beloved University of Virginia went down to the 16th-seeded University of Maryland, Baltimore County, I had one thought: I need to deactivate my Facebook account. I did not want to endure the taunts and trash talk of my friends who cheer for Duke.I do this often. When I need to focus on a project or relax a bit, I turn off the noise that comes from Facebook — the constant stream of disturbing faces, angry comments and shallow pulls on my precious attention. I also lose the lovely pictures of puppies and babies. But sometimes it’s worth it to retreat from the addictive torrent of stimuli framed in blue.If you feel the same way about how Facebook affects your daily life, by all means suspend or even delete your account (not that Facebook makes it easy to). But don’t pretend it will make a difference to Facebook or to the state of the world.A Twitter movement known as #DeleteFacebook is motivated by the stream of terrible things that Facebook has been involved in, including the proliferation of hate speech, harassment and propaganda meant to undermine trust in democratic institutions. The final spark was the news that the British political data firm Cambridge Analytica had acquired Facebook data on 50 million Americans.But even if tens of thousands of Americans quit Facebook tomorrow, the company would barely feel it. Facebook has more than 2.1 billion users worldwide. Its growth has plateaued in the United States, but the service is gaining millions of new users outside North America every week. Like most global companies, Facebook focuses its attention on markets like India, Egypt, Indonesia, the Philippines, Brazil and Mexico. At current rates of growth, it could reach three billion users by 2020.People in those countries are getting value out of Facebook; in some places, it’s one of the few reliable ways to keep in touch. In much of the developing world, Facebook is also the only news source that matters. This should horrify us. But it’s not a problem that will be solved by indignant Americans leaving the service.Moreover, quitting Facebook lets Google and Twitter off the hook. It lets AT&T and Comcast and its peers off the hook. The dangers of extremist propaganda and hate speech are just as grave on YouTube, which is owned by Google. Russian agents undermining trust in institutions and democracy are even more visible on Twitter. And every major telecommunications firm, as well as Google and Twitter, relies on surveillance systems similar to the one Facebook uses to run targeted advertising. Facebook is bigger and better at all of this than the others, but its problems are not unique.Facebook’s problems are not peripheral, not just some rough edges that can be sanded down. Its core functions are to deploy its algorithms to amplify content that generates strong emotional responses among its users, and then convert what it learns about our interests and desires into targeted ads. This is what makes Facebook Facebook. This is also what makes Facebook such an effective vehicle for promoting so much garbage and what makes it the most pervasive personal surveillance system in the world. As long as that’s true, don’t expect Facebook to fix itself.Hope lies, instead, with our power as citizens. We must demand that legislators and regulators get tougher. They should go after Facebook on antitrust grounds. Facebook is by far the dominant social platform in the United States, with 68 percent of American adults using it, according to the Pew Research Center. That means Facebook can gobble up potential competitors, as it already has with Instagram, and crowd out upstarts in fields such as artificial intelligence and virtual reality.The Department of Justice should consider severing WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger from Facebook, much as it broke up AT&T in 1982. That breakup unleashed creativity, improved phone service and lowered prices. It also limited the political power of AT&T.The European Union has already stepped up its legal efforts to protect data. Its General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect in May, is intended to ensure that users understand and consent to data collection and how that data is used. Users won’t have to agree to give access to their data to start using a product.As with some recent American consumer finance regulations, data collection policies under the new European Union rules must be clear, concise and in plain language. Companies will have to declare up front how they will use the data, and users can withdraw consent at any time. This should significantly deter many abuses that companies like Facebook and Google have committed. It won’t repair the sins of the past. But it’s something.Regulatory interventions have limitations. As long as Facebook is big and rich, its algorithms will determine and distort much of what we read and watch. Our long-term agenda should be to bolster institutions that foster democratic deliberation and the rational pursuit of knowledge. These include scientific organizations, universities, libraries, museums, newspapers and civic organizations. They have all been enfeebled over recent years as our resources and attention have shifted to the tiny addictive devices in our hands.If we act together as citizens to champion these changes, we have a chance to curb the problems that Facebook has amplified. If we act as disconnected, indignant moral agents, we surrender the only power we have: the power to think and act collectively. We could even use Facebook to mount campaigns to rein in Facebook. It is, after all, a powerful tool for motivation, even if it’s a terrible tool for deliberation.So go ahead and quit Facebook if it makes you feel calmer or more productive. Please realize, though, that you might be offloading problems onto those who may have less opportunity to protect privacy and dignity and are more vulnerable to threats to democracy. If the people who care the most about privacy, accountability and civil discourse evacuate Facebook in disgust, the entire platform becomes even less informed and diverse. Deactivation is the opposite of activism.
Good morning. Boris Johnson’s Hitler comment, Mark Zuckerberg’s admission and Emmanuel Macron’s big challenge. Here’s what you need to know:• Tensions between Britain and Russia hit a new peak.Boris Johnson, the top British diplomat, told Parliament that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, would use the World Cup this summer as a propaganda tool, much as Hitler did with the 1936 Olympic Games.In Moscow, the Russian Foreign Ministry summoned foreign diplomats to suggest Britain itself may have been responsible for poisoning a former Russian double agent and his daughter with a nerve agent. (The British ambassador did not attend.)Separately, European leaders are expected to approve a deal today to avoid a sudden change of trade rules when Britain quits the European Union next March. But Brexit supporters are angry about policy retreats from London._____• President Trump plans today to announce at least $50 billion worth of annual tariffs and other penalties against China for its theft of technology and trade secrets, which administration officials say has robbed American companies of billions of dollars in revenue and killed thousands of jobs. Above, Mr. Trump led a delegation of top U.S. companies to China last year.The measures represent Mr. Trump’s most aggressive move yet against a fast-rising economic rival that he has accused of preying on the United States.Mr. Trump also defended his decision to congratulate Mr. Putin on his re-election, and he lashed out at the news media for reporting that he had disregarded the advice of his national security team in doing so._____• “We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it.”Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, broke his silence on the growing furor over reports that outside companies harvested data from 50 million accounts.He said Facebook would crack down on outside apps and bolster privacy. The company has lost about $50 billion in market value since the reports were published, and growing numbers of users are considering deleting their accounts. British officials investigating fake news say Mr. Zuckerberg misled them and have summoned him for an explanation.On “The Daily,” we talk to one of our reporters who broke the story and discuss how a key data scientist at Cambridge Analytica, one of the companies involved, became a whistle-blower._____• A proposal by President Emmanuel Macron to erase the special status — and cut the generous benefits — of French railway workers has created a new and formidable challenge to his campaign to reshape France: strikes.A wave of nationwide walkouts by public sector workers, the first since Mr. Macron took office, begins today. Trains, planes and schools will be affected, and how he responds will be a signal of his resolve._____• The European authorities proposed revamping how digital businesses in the region are taxed, outlining broad changes that they hope will curb tax avoidance across the bloc. Above, Google’s headquarters in Dublin.• The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Under a new chairman, Jerome Powell, it signaled two more increases this year.• Swiss prosecutors began an investigation into the French luxury group Kering, owner of Gucci and Saint Laurent, widening the legal scrutiny of its tax practices in Europe.• One of Turkey’s leading media groups was sold to an ally of the country’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a move widely seen as likely to further limit the independence of the Turkish news media.• Our technology reporter in Mumbai explains how cheap mobile data is changing India, and why WhatsApp is indispensable.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Israel confirmed it had destroyed a Syrian nuclear reactor in 2007, breaking years of secrecy as tensions mount over Iran’s nuclear ambitions. (Israel released the above image yesterday.) [The New York Times]• The ashes of Stephen Hawking, the renowned cosmologist, will be interred next to the grave of Sir Isaac Newton at Westminster Abbey. [The New York Times] • In the U.S., a portrait emerged of the bomber who terrorized Austin, Tex., hours after he blew himself up. The police say they found his video confession. [The New York Times]• More than 20 people were at the table for President Trump’s meeting with the Saudi crown prince. None were women. [The New York Times]• Bird populations across the French countryside have collapsed by a third over the last 15 years, and scientists say pesticides are to blame. “The situation is catastrophic,” a researcher said. [The Guardian]• Former  President Nicolas Sarkozy of France faces corruption charges in connection with his 2007 election campaign, which is alleged to have received illegal financial support from the Libyan government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. [The New York Times]• Kosovo’s Parliament ratified a border agreement with Montenegro, though opposition lawmakers tried to stop the proceedings by releasing tear gas. [Reuters]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Brighten up the usual salmon dinner with a sauce of capers, scallions, parsley and garlic.• Thinking of going to Brazil? You’ll need this vaccination.• Here’s how to protect your data on Facebook.• Nepal wants to remove 200,000 pounds of trekkers’ garbage in a campaign aimed at “saving the glory of the Everest region.” (They’re going to need more yaks.)• In Germany, a growing number of art museums offer tours for dementia patients, designed to bring stimulation and solace.•  A scientist in Australia asked people across the country to mail her fallen feathers, like the ones shown above, so she could map bird movements as the country’s wetlands disappear. The response, she says, has been “really exciting.”On this day in 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Eisenstadt v. Baird that it’s unconstitutional for a state to deny unmarried people access to contraception.The court  ruled in 1965 that state bans on contraceptives for married couples violated their privacy rights. But a few states still restricted access for single people.Bill Baird, an activist, violated one such law in Massachusetts. He appealed his conviction to the Supreme Court, which struck down the law.Justice William Brennan held that the law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment because it discriminated between married and unmarried people.The case became an important precedent in subsequent landmark rulings by the Supreme Court, including its 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized abortion rights, and, more recently, the 2015 decision guaranteeing a right to same-sex marriage.A movie about Mr. Baird’s case is in development. Above, Mr. Baird in 2012.Mr. Baird has continued working as an activist, but his legacy is complicated by what The Times described in 1993 as an “unapologetic zealotry” and a willingness to criticize “even his ideologic allies.” Planned Parenthood once called him an “embarrassment.”Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.U.S. editions.)
Data harvesting on Facebook, a Brexit transition deal and a self-driving Uber’s first fatal accident. Here’s the latest:• Alexander Nix, above, the chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, the data firm hired by the Trump campaign that harvested information from more than 50 million Facebook profiles, was secretly filmed by a reporter as he offered to entrap foreign politicians with women.Britain’s information commissioner is seeking a warrant to review the firm’s data, which was collected through a third-party app on Facebook.The technical openness to engagement that helped make Facebook a juggernaut has become a privacy nightmare, our columnist writes. Here’s how you can protect your information.Facebook’s share price plummeted, and a key executive who had urged more disclosure is planning to leave.
As Facebook grapples with outrage over its role in the harvesting of data from 50 million accounts, the company’s chief data security officer is on the way out.We were told that the executive, Alex Stamos, had pushed for more transparency but met resistance from other senior leaders.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether Facebook violated a data privacy agreement, and Britain’s information watchdog sought a warrant to search the London offices Cambridge Analytica, the analysis firm involved
MENLO PARK, Calif. — John Tenanes, Facebook’s vice president for real estate, is showing off the company’s plans for expansion. It will have offices for thousands of programmers to extend Facebook’s fearsome reach. But that is not what Mr. Tenanes is excited about.He leans over a scale model of the 59-acre site, which is named Willow Village. “There will be housing there,” he points. “There will be a retail street along here, with a grocery store and a drugstore. That round building in the corner? Maybe a cultural center.”In just a few years, Facebook built a virtual community that linked more than two billion people, an achievement with few precedents. Now the social network is building a real community, the kind you can walk around. It is a project with many precedents in American history, quite a few of them cautionary tales about what happens when a powerful corporation takes control of civic life.Facebook, Mr. Tenanes says, has a dual mission: “We want to balance our growth with the community’s needs.”Willow Village will be wedged between the Menlo Park neighborhood of Belle Haven and the city of East Palo Alto, both heavily Hispanic communities that are among Silicon Valley’s poorest. Facebook is planning 1,500 apartments, and has agreed with Menlo Park to offer 225 of them at below-market rates. The most likely tenants of the full-price units are Facebook employees, who already receive a five-figure bonus if they live near the office.The community will have eight acres of parks, plazas and bike-pedestrian paths open to the public. Facebook wants to revitalize the railway running alongside the property and will finish next year a pedestrian bridge over the expressway. The bridge will provide access to the trail that rings San Francisco Bay, a boon for birders and bikers.Mr. Tenanes contemplates the audacity of building a city.“It’s a good thing, right?” he says.Depends how it goes. Facebook is testing the proposition: Do people love tech companies so much they will live inside of them? When the project was announced last summer, critics dubbed it Facebookville or, in tribute to company co-founder Mark Zuckerberg, Zucktown.The company has not warmed to these names. “I owe my soul to the company store,” Tennessee Ernie Ford sang. But Facebook’s ambitions are now confronting a more urgent problem: an escalating crisis over the company’s power to sway elections, its casual approach to data privacy and its susceptibility to Russian manipulation. If Facebook’s image is permanently sullied by the furor over Cambridge Analytica, the data firm hired by President Trump’s 2016 election campaign, Zucktown will falter before it is finished.The social media colossus is not the only Big Tech company in the complicated position of dressing up its expansion as a gift to its neighbors.A few miles down the 101 highway, another new civic-corporate partnership is underway in the city of Mountain View. Google is promising to place the public “in the very heart of Google’s vibrant community.”The search company plans a 600,000-square-foot office building with a roof that melts up into soft peaks, kind of like a meringue. It will have stores, cafes, gardens and even a space for theatrical performances, as well as a place for consumers to test-drive new Google technology.Google will build 5,000 homes on its property under an agreement brokered with Mountain View in December. Call it Alphabet City as a nod to Alphabet, Google’s corporate parent. The company said it was still figuring out its future as a landlord, and declined further comment.Zucktown and Alphabet City, as well as similar projects being contemplated across Silicon Valley, could at a minimum have consequences for the start-up culture that transformed fruit orchards into the world’s greatest tech hub. Silicon Valley was built by engineers jumping from company to company. That drove the innovation that sped the rise of some firms and hastened the demise of others.As workers begin to literally live at the office, they will inevitably be more beholden to bosses who also collect the rent. After all, it is much harder to find a place to live in Silicon Valley than a new job. Turnover may slump, and so might the turnover in ideas.The push into the physical also has implications for the 1.2 million people in Silicon Valley who are teachers, fitness instructors, clerks, baristas — all those who hold jobs that do not come with stock options. As they inch down the clogged streets and bid money they don’t have on miserable houses, they will hear the siren call of Big Tech: We can fix broken communities by building new ones. Trust us.“Corporations are paying for things that the city or county and state used to pay for,” said Cecilia Taylor of Belle Haven Action, a community advocacy group. “They have a lot of money. A lot of money. More than the city does. And a lot more power.”On a wall in the Facebook division charged with the company’s growth there is a poster with a classic tech admonition: “Go Big or Go Home.” Facebook is in essence tweaking that to “Go Big at Home.” About 12,000 of its 25,000 employees work in Menlo Park. In a decade, it will have space for 35,000 — slightly more than the city’s current population.The notion of communities run by and for companies has been a fixture in the United States almost from the beginning. Often these places were exercises in plunder.In the textile town of Lowell, Mass., in 1846, the mill clock slowed down to lengthen shifts and then sped up at night when the workers were off, according to one contemporary reformer. U.S. Steel built Gary, Ind., but took little responsibility for its employees, many of whom lived in substandard housing in crime-ridden neighborhoods.There were more benign examples too. Milton Hershey began building a chocolate factory in the middle of Pennsylvania in 1903 and then surrounded it with a community where, he pledged, there would be “no poverty, no nuisances, no evil.” In return for surrendering certain rights — like local elections and privacy — workers in the town of Hershey got medical coverage, a free junior college, parks and a zoo.Corporate good will, however, had a way of curdling over time.In Wisconsin, the Kohler family established a plumbing-fixtures factory in 1900 and then created a town around it. Kohler built houses for couples and dorms for single men, financed schools, had a pension plan and paid well. When economic conditions deteriorated during the Depression, however, the employees tried to strike. Kohler responded by arming its deputies with machine guns. In the ensuing clash, more than 40 strikers were shot and two were killed.By the 1960s, the era of the company town in America was fading, even as countries like China picked up the notion. Zhengzhou is a remote Chinese city that was once impoverished. It now has 350,000 workers building iPhones.Hardy Green, author of “The Company Town: The Industrial Edens and Satanic Mills That Shaped the American Economy,” said that the tech companies had been reviving elements of the company town in the United States for years now.The free meals, nap pods, concierge services, yoga classes, on-site laundry and haircuts are a perk but also a modern way of slowing down the mill clock so the workers can spend more time working. But in a society where government is increasingly ineffective, company towns are nevertheless likely to be welcomed, or at least tolerated.“It may be the best option for many, just as a benevolent dictatorship can be O.K. for as long as the benevolence lasts,” Mr. Green said.Only seven years ago, Silicon Valley had a very different attitude about building housing for workers, much less the community. A gaunt Steve Jobs, in what would turn out to be his last public appearance, made his case before the Cupertino City Council for a new Apple headquarters.Mr. Jobs told council members how great the new doughnut-shaped headquarters was going to be. It would have a lot of trees, a theater, curved windows. Architecture students would come from all over to study it.City Council member Kris Wang had a question: How could the 60,000 Cupertino residents benefit from this new campus?“We’d like to continue to stay here and pay taxes,” Mr. Jobs said. “If we can’t, we’d have to go somewhere like Mountain View.”Ms. Wang, a former Cupertino mayor, persisted. “Do we get free Wi-Fi or something like that?”“I’m a simpleton,” Mr. Jobs replied. “I always had this view that we pay taxes and the city should do those things. That’s why we pay taxes. If we can get out of paying taxes I’d be glad to put up a Wi-Fi network.”Since that June 2011 meeting, the number of hours commuters in Silicon Valley lose every day to congestion has doubled to 66,000. About 300,000 new jobs have been created, pushing the median apartment rental rate up 37 percent and the median cost of a home to $968,000.Meanwhile, the big companies — not only Apple but Amazon, which has an increasingly large presence in Silicon Valley, as well as Facebook and Google — are much wealthier.Apple built a $5 billion campus that, for all its splendor, is not readily accessible by mass transit. That problem was compounded by the company’s apparent lack of interest in where its new employees would live. Decisions like these are no longer acceptable from a public relations point of view, and would not be smart for the companies in any case. If Silicon Valley continues choking on its traffic, the companies will find hiring not merely difficult but impossible. Even for a tech programmer, a $2 million house is a hurdle.So the virtual companies are being forced to grapple with the most intractable physical issues.“I don’t think Google, for instance, thought they were going to have to get into the transportation business,” said Allison Arieff, editorial director of San Francisco Bay Area Planning and Urban Research Association, a research organization. “But they now have a giant swath of the company devoted to getting people around. Housing seems the next step. No one bats an eye if universities build housing for students, grad students and tenured professors.”When the tech companies played a much smaller role in Silicon Valley 25 years ago, even the working class could afford to live here. So could Stanford University students. Traffic flowed naturally.However enticing this past might seem, efforts to put the brakes on growth have had limited success.Measure M, a 2014 effort to restrict development in Menlo Park’s downtown, was soundly defeated by voters. Patti Fry, a former chairwoman of the Menlo Park City Planning Commission and an architect of the measure, said she is wary of Facebook’s increasing size and power.“They’re doing more than most companies, but most of what they do serves them,” she said. “I do not expect a company to have as a priority providing community services that a real community needs. They’re in business to be in business.”Drew Combs is a former journalist who became a member of the Menlo Park Planning Commission and then ran for City Council in 2014. He was loosely associated with Measure M and when it failed, so did his bid. He is now chairman of the planning commission, which reviews the use permits required for large projects.“I don’t think in a lot of cases this is a good-versus-evil battle,” Mr. Combs said. “This is a negotiation between different stakeholders.”Mr. Combs has since gotten a new job. He now works at Facebook. He recuses himself when Facebook issues come up before the commission, and also recuses himself from the question of whether Facebook is turning into a one-company town.“Local issues here are passionately and thoroughly debated,” he said. “This hasn’t waned during the six years I’ve been involved and I don’t expect that it will in the future.”Facebook’s move toward openness and community engagement is recent. Its current campus, which it moved into in 2011, is a ring of buildings with a “street” in the middle that has restaurants, pop-up shops, a book exchange and other amenities, but only employees can go there.Across the street, the company opened in 2015 an office designed by Frank Gehry. It is basically one enormous room — the largest open-floor plan in the world, Facebook says. On the landscaped roof is a garden, a walking loop and many trees. The neighbors cannot see any of this.In Zucktown, this notion of firmly separated insiders and outsiders will be deliberately blurred.“The retail stores will not be managed by Facebook. But we have the mechanism, we are the property owner,” says Mr. Tenanes, the real estate chief, adding that he doesn’t know exactly how it will work in practice. “It is a bit new.”Menlo Science & Technology Park, a decaying office park that will be torn down for Willow Village, is not exactly a beloved part of the city, and neither are the other sites on which Facebook has been building. They were in an industrial zone. That has helped insulate the company from criticism, which nonetheless simmers beneath the surface in Belle Haven.The Peery Foundation, a grantmaker based nearby in Palo Alto, made a short video two years ago documenting how the area around Facebook’s headquarters was changing. It interviewed dozens of local residents, including one woman who referred to landlords who had been renting to low-income families and were now selling their properties. “Eventually,” she said, “there’s going to be nobody here but Facebook.”Facebook, in a comment at the end of the film, acknowledges, “We still have a lot of work to do.” The company has increased its efforts in the community. So has the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a limited liability company set up by Mr. Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan for philanthropy. At the same time, Facebook has continued to expand.Ms. Taylor grew up in Belle Haven, left, came back to run for the Menlo Park City Council in 2016, narrowly lost, and last year formed Belle Haven Action. It is an organization on a shoestring; she and two colleagues do not have offices and hold meetings at the local community center.“Facebook is very smart,” she said. “They have money in every problem. Immigration. Housing. Transportation. Education.” For example, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative gave $3 million to an East Palo Alto legal services group that helps low-income residents with housing and immigration issues. It has given more than $7 million to create a primary school.And it is helping fund Belle Haven Action. In January, the organization got a $75,000 grant from the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.Ms. Taylor acknowledged it is awkward for an advocacy group to be funded by the company it is confronting, but said: “When you don’t have resources, that makes your work so much harder. This is about being a disrupter but also a negotiator.”A recent accomplishment by Belle Haven Action: getting a “no right turn” sign on a busy Facebook parking lot to stop workers from heading deeper into the community in an attempt to avoid congestion. Next it would like the company to install cameras on the streets to monitor traffic and pedestrian safety.“We need movement because nothing has been done for so long,” said Ms. Taylor. “Now Facebook comes in and they’re willing to give us a few pennies and something for the community. The trains will run. We’ll have better schools, a grocery store — although we’re going to push for a co-op.”Mr. Jobs promised Cupertino nothing — and that’s about all Cupertino got. Apple gave $6 million to an affordable housing fund and pays certain fees to the city, but the gleaming new campus is resolutely closed to the public.Its critics, Apple says, don’t understand.“We didn’t make Apple Park for other people,” Apple chief design officer Jonathan Ive said at a recent talk in Washington. “It wasn’t made for you.”Ms. Wang, the former Cupertino council member, has no regrets about not pushing Mr. Jobs harder. “I’m proud of Apple,” she says. “They’ve done a good job. The campus is very impressive.”Her only wish — and it’s a small one — is that someday Apple will invite her in to actually see it.If Apple is unapproachable, Facebook and its money are becoming inescapable. In addition to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative’s grants to local organizations, the social network is getting more involved with local policing.In 2014, Facebook paid $200,000 to create a new Menlo Park police substation adjoining its campus. It pays the annual rent. It also financed the $173,146 annual salary and benefits of an officer. Last year the company proposed giving the city $11 million to pay for a six-officer unit. That plan evoked some disquiet.“Instead of being beholden to the public, public servants will be beholden to a private company,” a local activist, J.T. Faraji, said at a City Council meeting.“Our goal is to strengthen the community,” said Juan Salazar, a Facebook public policy manager. “We want a more permeable relationship, where we engage more. The parks, the grocery store, are places to congregate together, to build a sense of place.”David Kirkpatrick, whose book “The Facebook Effect” is a history of the company’s early years, is ambivalent about the expansion. While he says “Facebook is a company that at least tries to have a conscience,” he also worries about so much enforced togetherness on employees.“Facebook has the attitude that if you are really a good employee you will live, eat and sleep Facebook,” he said. “That creates insularity, which is a big problem in Silicon Valley already.”If Silicon Valley is the laboratory for the increasingly intimate relationship between big tech, its workers and its neighbors (who are also frequently its users), seeds are being planted elsewhere as well.In Toronto, an offshoot of Google won approval last fall to redevelop a 12-acre chunk of the waterfront. Chicago was so eager to land Amazon’s new headquarters that it proposed returning to the company half of all the state income tax its employees paid — money that would enrich the company, one of the world’s most highly valued, at the expense of the community. Chicago is now a finalist. So is Newark, where the state is offering up to $7 billion in tax credits.As Facebook works to make Willow Village a reality, its ambitions can only grow.The 1,500 apartments “are a starting point,” said Mr. Tenanes. “I would hope we could do more. We’re solving a problem here.”
Calls for privacy in the wake of revelations that a political consulting firm that worked for the Trump campaign harvested Facebook data without user permission could upend tech companies’ business model. Above, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, addressed jittery employees.Facebook, Google and other firms got big by offering free services in exchange for data that could be used by advertisers. But there are growing calls from consumers and regulators — in the U.S. and in Europe — to crack down on privacy violations. Meanwhile, the Justice Department and the F.B.I. are pushing tech firms to allow them access to encrypted data on phones during investigations.
Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Mark Zuckerberg, the social media giant’s chief executive, publicly addressed the crisis facing his company, five days after reports about the misuse of data from 50 million of its users.“We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it,” he wrote in a statement outlining the steps Facebook would take to better protect users’ information. He also spoke to The Times about his plans for change.Given that the gathering of user data is fundamental to the company’s operations, lawmakers and researchers were unimpressed by Mr. Zuckerberg’s mea culpa: “He avoided the big issue, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy,” a Columbia University researcher said.• Disillusioned Facebook users  have been leaving the service. Want to delete your account? You can try
