WASHINGTON — Sprinkled amid the throngs of young people protesting gun violence in Washington on Saturday were groups of students without signs denouncing President Trump, or the National Rifle Association, or the shooting massacres that have plagued the nation.Instead, they carried megaphones and wore T-shirts calling attention to something close and constant: urban gun violence.In cities such as Baltimore, the anguish of shootings feels different — the bloodshed comes not in isolated bursts of mass slaughter, but instead in a ceaseless rhythm, something that happens to friends and family, classmates and neighbors, in front yards and on playgrounds.“In the inner city, there’s a game: gunshots or firecrackers?” said Steve Sias, a high school student at Baltimore City College who came to the Washington march. “Whenever you hear the sound, you ask everyone in the house: Is it gunshots or firecrackers? Usually the parents say firecrackers so they don’t startle the kids. But more times than not it’s actually gunshots in the distance, or right outside your window.”Last year, Baltimore set a per capita record for homicides: 343 total, or about 56 for every 100,000 people. The city’s population is just over 600,000. Its murder rate was by far the highest among the nation’s 30 largest cities.Students from Baltimore, as well as young people who attended a rally in Chicago, were vocal on Saturday about the need for steps to reduce gun violence, much in the same way as students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., where a gunman killed 17 people last month. But they had a different idea of the problem.Destini Philpot, another student at Baltimore City College, was joined on Saturday in Washington by Carrie Zaremba, a student at the Friends School of Baltimore, a predominantly white Quaker institution. The two said they had helped organize a citywide walkout this month that involved both public and private schools.“It shouldn’t take a mass shooting in a predominantly white area like Parkland to start caring about gun violence,” Ms. Zaremba said.Ms. Philpot said that many of those at the rally were thinking of gun violence in the only way they knew how: as mass shootings.“When they talk about gun violence, they’re talking about schools,” she said.Private donors paid for 60 buses that carried around 3,000 Baltimore students to the Washington event. Some Baltimore organizers skipped their city’s satellite march to attend the one in the capital, hoping to reach an audience largely unfamiliar with the kind of violence that visits them with gruesome regularity.One of those organizers, Erricka Bridgeford, has helped work on a campaign called Baltimore Ceasefire, which holds quarterly “cease-fire” weekends that call for a stop to killings for a three-day period.On Saturday, she recalled what had brought her to Washington: the lasting agony from losing her brother, stepson and friends to gun violence.“I’ve seen dead bodies and blood,” she said. “These are things you never recover from. You learn how to live your life differently, because the air looks different once you experience that kind of trauma. I have to do something with the pain. I don’t want to be a prisoner to it.”Ms. Bridgeford said shootings were a never-ending feature of life in her Baltimore neighborhood.“There’s no such thing as post-traumatic stress in a lot of communities in America, because there’s no ‘post,’” she said. “You don’t get a chance to experience the aftermath before there’s another trauma because of gun violence.”One of the students walking with Ms. Bridgeford was Shanika Walker, who attends the Excel Academy at Francis M. Wood High School in Baltimore, which recently lost seven students to homicide in 15 months.“Only the scared people have guns, and they kill people they’re scared of,” she said. “There’s a lot of fear.”On Chicago’s Near West Side on Saturday, just a few miles from neighborhoods where shootings are common, thousands filled Union Park to protest a problem just as local.Many came to the rally bearing personal stories of tragedy and loss, years of frustration with unchanged gun laws and hope replenished by recent student-led activism.“We have been fighting for a long, long time,” said Maria Pike, whose son, Ricky, 24, was shot to death in 2012. “And their voice is a fresh voice, is a true voice, is a transparent voice. And it comes from the heart.”Speaker after speaker at the Chicago rally mentioned relatives or classmates who had been wounded or killed in shootings, frustrated that past calls to action had not led to change.“Chicago has been plagued with gun violence way before the Parkland shooting,” said Juan Reyes, a high school student. “Suddenly, people are talking about students not feeling safe in schools. But in reality, students in our city’s South and West Sides have never felt safe.”One high school student, Denzel Russell, told the crowd, “I have watched one of my friends get murdered while we were playing on the basketball court. That experience had me frozen and speechless.”Mr. Russell added: “We can come together for a march. But are we willing to come together to take action?”Emerson Toomey, 17, who helped organize the Chicago march, said her mother was grazed by a bullet in a drive-by shooting on the North Side of the city.“It’s more about the journey to school for some kids than it is about the actual day at school,” she said.But for the teachers who believe they must now think as much about school shootings as they do about urban gun violence, Saturday’s rallies in Washington and Chicago felt like the meeting of two threats, now inseparable.“I see the look on the students’ faces,” said Jeremy McConnell, a special education teacher at Paul Laurence Dunbar High School in Baltimore. “They come from these communities. They come from these families that engage in this kind of violence. They might be a sibling or neighbor removed.”“They know gun violence is real. They see it in the streets,” added Mr. McConnell, who, as the voice behind public address announcements at the school, reminds students to be vigilant after news of shootings in Baltimore and across the country. “But they haven’t seen it in school. They think any day now it’s coming here.”
“If they continue to ignore us, to only pretend to listen, then we will take action where it counts. We will take action every day in every way until they simply cannot ignore us any more.”DELANEY TARR, a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., where a gunman killed 17 people last month, speaking to a crowd of thousands in Washington Saturday, when protests against gun violence took hold across the country.
Emma González spoke for just under two minutes on Saturday before tens of thousands of demonstrators at the March for Our Lives rally in Washington, describing the effects of gun violence in emotional detail and reciting the names of classmates who had been killed.Then she said nothing for four minutes and 26 seconds.Ms. González, a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., has emerged as one of the most prominent faces among the student activists who have mobilized against gun violence after a shooting at their school last month that left 17 dead.Their facility with social media has added urgency to demands for more gun control. Ms. González, who has more than 1.3 million followers on Twitter, has spent much of the last month urging her audience to turn out for Saturday’s marches.She stared straight ahead during her period of silence onstage, her sometimes watery eyes fixed in the distance. Then a timer went off.“Since the time that I came out here, it has been six minutes and 20 seconds,” she said. “The shooter has ceased shooting, and will soon abandon his rifle, blend in with the students as they escape, and walk free for an hour before arrest.“Fight for your lives, before it’s someone else’s job,” she continued, and then walked offstage.Ms. González’s speech was a poignant moment during a day of demonstrations filled with emotional displays. At gatherings across the country, speakers — most of them students — denounced gun violence and committed to “stop at nothing” until their elected leaders took action to prevent it. Photos from the day’s events suggest that the calls for action against gun violence may be catching on in ways they had not after previous mass shootings.Other demonstrators communicated their opposition to any further restrictions on guns with similar fervor, though in much smaller numbers, in scattered protests across the country.
The passionate gun control rallies Saturday that brought out large crowds around the country sent a vivid signal that the issue is likely to play a major role in the 2018 midterm elections, and that Republicans could find themselves largely on the defensive on gun issues for the first time in decades.The gun debate could play out very differently in House and Senate races, as Republicans strain to save suburban congressional districts where gun control is popular, and Democrats defend Senate seats in red states where the Second Amendment is sacrosanct.But, in a year of extraordinary political intensity, and in the first national election of the Trump presidency, Republican and Democratic leaders say the gun issue appears to have become a potent rallying point for voters opposed to Mr. Trump and fed up with what they see as Washington’s indifference to mass shootings. The scale of demonstrations over the weekend was reminiscent of the Women’s March, earlier in Mr. Trump’s presidency, and underscored the intense energy of activists on the left ahead of the fall campaign.The commitment of the young march organizers to keep the issue front and center makes it unlikely to fade before November. But they are certain to face considerable resistance from pro-gun forces, particularly the National Rifle Association, which has formidable financial resources at its disposal and a long record of successfully mobilizing conservatives and helping win elections.Still, Republicans have already been struggling to keep their footing in densely populated suburbs where Mr. Trump is unpopular and the N.R.A. is an object of widespread scorn. The gun issue appears likely to deepen Republicans’ problems in these areas, further cleaving moderate, pocketbook-minded suburban voters from the party’s more hard-line rural base and raising the risks for Republicans in swing House districts around the country.Gun control may be a complicated issue for Democrats, too, because of the makeup of the Senate races on the ballot in November. If Democrats have a path to capturing the House through mainly moderate, well-educated districts, they are also defending Senate seats in strongly conservative states, like West Virginia and North Dakota, and in Republican-leaning states like Missouri and Indiana, where pro-gun positions have long been safe political terrain.But several prominent Republicans warned on Sunday that the party could end up alienating groups that tend to vote for candidates to the right of center if they are seen as unresponsive to the rising outcry around guns. In an atmosphere of frustration with Washington, inaction on guns could add to voters’ anger at entrenched lawmakers there.Gov. John Kasich, Republican of Ohio, warned in a CNN interview on Sunday that voters “do want changes” on gun policy and Republicans were ignoring them at their peril.“People should absolutely be held accountable at the ballot box,” said Mr. Kasich, a critic of Mr. Trump who is contemplating a run for president in 2020.It is not only the Republican Party’s dwindling moderate wing that sees danger in the gun issue. Dan Eberhart, an energy executive and major conservative donor, said Republicans risked driving away suburban voters if they did not do more to defy the N.R.A.Mr. Eberhart pointed to Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, a Republican with an A-plus N.R.A. rating for supporting the organization’s agenda. Mr. Scott, who is contemplating a bid for the Senate seat held by the Democrat Bill Nelson, signed incremental new gun regulations after last month’s shooting in Parkland, Fla., over the N.R.A.’s objections.“Republicans are going to have to move a little to get 51 percent-plus in elections, and the N.R.A. will have to deal with it,” Mr. Eberhart said. “The N.R.A. is really out of step with suburban G.O.P. voters.”While Democrats have little hope the demonstrations will lead quickly to legislation, they predict the broad-based outpouring of protest will increase pressure on Republicans. Addressing reporters on Sunday, Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader and Democrat of New York, said even Republicans in the “stranglehold” of the N.R.A. must be “smelling the change in the air.”“This wasn’t Democrats only,” Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii, said of the protests. “This was people just sick and tired of a ruling party that refuses to take action on something so morally urgent.”Public opinion polls show powerful support for a range of gun measures, with overwhelming support for stricter background checks for gun purchasers and a smaller majority favoring an outright ban on assault-style weapons. A Fox News poll conducted last week found that three in five voters supported a ban on military-style weapons, while about nine in 10 supported universal background checks.But the same poll found scant optimism among voters that Congress would act in accordance with their preferences: Only about a fifth of voters thought it was highly likely Congress would act.The doubters are probably correct: There is relatively little time left on the congressional calendar this year, and the Republicans who control the House and Senate have shown no great appetite for tackling gun control. The $1.3 trillion spending bill that Mr. Trump signed on Friday included modest school safety measures and improvements to the background-checks system, but it did not include a number of more ambitious and popular measures, like raising the age requirement for purchasers of assault weapons.And while the Justice Department announced last week that it would try to follow through on a promise to ban so-called bump stocks through regulation, Mr. Trump has not indicated that he intends to take any further executive action to address the issue.Against a backdrop of plodding debate in Washington, a number of Democratic candidates in important races have already made prominent appeals to voters on the issue of gun violence, combining support for new gun restrictions with rhetorical denunciations of the N.R.A.Several of the Democrats campaigning most assertively on firearm regulation are also competing in areas recently afflicted by gun massacres. In Nevada, Steve Sisolak, a leading Democratic candidate for governor, vowed in his first television commercial to “take on the N.R.A.” A member of the Clark County Commission, which includes Las Vegas, Mr. Sisolak was among the most visible officials responding to the mass shooting in October, which left 58 people dead and hundreds wounded.Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, a Democratic congressional candidate in South Florida, in a district not far from Parkland, said voters were fired up because of their horror at mass shootings and their outrage at congressional inaction.“This is a symbol of everything that is wrong right now, that is happening in Washington, D.C.,” said Ms. Mucarsel-Powell, who is challenging Representative Carlos Curbelo, a Miami Republican.Ms. Mucarsel-Powell, who marched against gun violence in Key West on Saturday, has aired commercials describing her personal experience with gun violence: When she was 24, her father was shot and killed in Ecuador.Other Democrats have been more timid on gun issues, particularly in more rural and heavily white, working-class districts where broad gun rights are more popular. When Democrats won an upset victory in a Pennsylvania special election  this month, in a heavily conservative congressional district outside Pittsburgh, they did so by nominating a distinctly moderate candidate, Conor Lamb, who favored improving the background checks system but did not back other popular gun restrictions.Val DiGiorgio, the chairman of the Pennsylvania Republican Party, said that while Democrats won that special election, the race had shown “the passion of Second Amendment supporters.” But Mr. DiGiorgio said voters were also seeking remedies for gun violence.“It’s clear that Americans on all sides of the debate are looking for solutions,” Mr. DiGiorgio said.But the energy in the Democratic base is with those who favor gun restrictions.While the colorful signs and pleading speeches of the students drew attention on Saturday, state and local Democratic parties across the country also used the marches to register voters and sign up volunteers.In Florida, volunteers circulated at protests in over 30 cities, passing out “commit to vote” cards that the party can later use for voter turnout purposes. And in Virginia, Democrats descended on the cities where buses were departing to the Washington march to register voters.The efforts were not confined to large liberal and swing states. In Columbia, S.C., the local Democratic Party used the march in the state’s capital to sign up voters for what could be a competitive governor’s race this fall. The liberal group Indivisible also used the protests to kick off a campaign pressuring members of Congress during the legislative recess.Jim Hobart, a Republican pollster, said the marches illustrated the enormous energy of the Democratic base and revealed generational changes in the electorate that Republicans will have to grapple with.“As we have seen in special elections, Democratic enthusiasm is already very high and the gun issue just adds to that,” Mr. Hobart said, noting that students in his hometown Atlanta had traveled by bus for 10 hours to join the march in Washington. “These same students are much more likely to not just vote, but volunteer.”
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. “Welcome to the revolution.”That was Cameron Kasky, a junior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., at the March for Our Lives against gun violence in Washington. He was addressing “the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down and stay silent.”Hundreds of thousands of people poured into the streets around the world for sister marches. Inspired by survivors of the Parkland shooting, in speeches and with colorful signs and chants, they called for gun control measures and vowed to continue their campaign as the midterm elections approach. You can hear some of the speeches in this video, and here’s a photo gallery.Above, two students at the rally in the capital: Jada Wright, 17, and Carl Payne, 18, from Eastern Senior High School in Washington.Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper.____2. It was a crazy week in Washington, even by Washington standards. A head-spinning series of presidential decisions on national security, trade and the budget left the capital reeling — and White House aides nervous about what comes next.As two hard-line hawks are set to take key posts — that would be John Bolton as national security adviser and Mike Pompeo as secretary of state — President Trump’s team faces dire challenges. Topping the list: North Korea and Iran.Then there are domestic challenges, including the one posed by Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who says she had an affair with Mr. Trump. She is suing to get out of a nondisclosure agreement, and is scheduled to appear on “60 Minutes” on Sunday.____3. Calls for privacy in the wake of revelations that a political consulting firm that worked for the Trump campaign harvested Facebook data without user permission could upend tech companies’ business model. Above, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, addressed jittery employees.Facebook, Google and other firms got big by offering free services in exchange for data that could be used by advertisers. But there are growing calls from consumers and regulators — in the U.S. and in Europe — to crack down on privacy violations. Meanwhile, the Justice Department and the F.B.I. are pushing tech firms to allow them access to encrypted data on phones during investigations.____4. Lucky breaks, surveillance video and a pair of pink gloves led investigators to Mark Conditt, the 23-year-old suspect in a series of mysterious bombings in Texas.He died in an explosion as investigators closed in on him early Wednesday. (Above, the scene of that explosion.) He left behind a 25-minute recording that the police said was a confession, but which shed no light on his motives.The two people killed in the bombings belonged to prominent African-American families in Austin, which led many to believe they were racially motivated. Anthony Stephan House, 39, was a father and finance professional. Draylen Mason, 17, was a promising classical musician.____5. “Whenever I hear a blast go off in my hometown the first thing I do is call my little brother.”That is Fatima Faizi, above, a young reporter in our Kabul bureau, describing how she covers suicide bombings. She has experienced eight of them since 2016.The most recent was a devastating attack near a hospital as residents celebrated Nowruz, the Persian New Year. Thirty-one people were killed. We also talked to a Ukrainian soldier who deserted the Soviet Army and ended up staying in Afghanistan for more than three decades.____6. We obtained documents that show Uber’s self-driving cars were struggling even before one struck and killed a woman in Arizona. Above, investigators inspecting the vehicle.The authorities are still investigating the crash and have not determined whether the car was at fault. Uber has halted autonomous car tests in Arizona, Pittsburgh, San Francisco and Toronto.Tech companies and automakers are spending billions developing self-driving cars, but there are few federal rules governing their testing.____7. There’s a new economy in the Houston suburbs hit hardest by Hurricane Harvey: the buying and selling of flooded homes.We sent a team to Canyon Gate, a subdivision built in a reservoir area designed to flood in order to protect central Houston. Nearly all of the homes are destined to flood again.“I was flooded, too, I get it,” said Nick Pelletiere, above, who is both a resident and a speculator. “But this hurricane is a monstrous opportunity.”You can see more of the rebuilding in this video, and these maps explain how the reservoir system is designed.____8. Our reporter recently spent 10 days on the road rediscovering Quebec, where he was born, after nearly three decades away.He met a wide array of people along the way. Here are portraits of some of them, including an Algonquin D.J. (that’s Cory Whiteduck, above), a Muslim leader, the doorman at Quebec City’s grandest hotel and a well-known detective novelist.____9. The latest obituary in our Overlooked series is of the woman who invented the chocolate chip cookie. Ruth Wakefield, above, originally called her creation the Toll House Chocolate Crunch Cookie, after the popular Massachusetts restaurant she ran with her husband in the 1930s.As the Overlooked project started, we asked readers to suggest women they felt deserved, but didn’t get, obituaries in The Times. Here are the stories you told us about your grandmothers and great-grandmothers.____10. Finally, come inside the Times Square studios where actors for Broadway’s biggest shows rehearse. Our annotated video shows a day in the life of the bustling space. Above, rehearsing a scene from “Frozen.”Looking for other ideas for what to read, watch or listen to?This week’s New York Times best-seller lists have No. 1 debuts in hardcover fiction with Clive Cussler and Graham Brown’s thriller “The Rising Sea,” and in hardcover nonfiction with Michael Isikoff and David Corn’s look at the 2016 presidential election, “Russian Roulette.”Our team at Watching has a list of some key episodes of “Roseanne” to rewatch before the series reboot premieres on Tuesday. (The old episodes are streaming on Amazon Prime; the new ones will be on ABC.)And our music critics have a new playlist out, with tracks by Shawn Mendes and Snail Mail, among others.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The gun-control movement goes global, the North Korean defectors who didn’t make it, and the fight over the Bight. Here’s what you need to know: •  “Welcome to the revolution.”That was a survivor of the recent Florida school massacre addressing “the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down and stay silent” at the March for Our Lives against gun violence in Washington on Saturday.Hundreds of thousands of people poured into the streets around the world for sister marches in support of gun control, including in Sydney, above, Tokyo, Mumbai, Berlin, Paris and London.You can hear some of the speeches in this video, and here’s a photo gallery. And yes, in the U.S., there were counterprotesters calling for more guns._____•  President Trump returns from his Florida resort to a White House he left in turmoil last week, after his head-spinning decisions on national security, trade and the domestic budget. (Catch up here.) His own aides are nervous about what comes next.His new, hard-line choices for key posts — including John Bolton, above, as national security adviser and Mike Pompeo as secretary of state — have raised the threat of military confrontation if foreign adversaries do not meet U.S. demands.Meanwhile, women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump are speaking out. Last week, it was a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal. In a few hours (7 p.m. Eastern, 10 a.m. Sydney), the adult film actress Stormy Daniels is scheduled to appear on CBS’s “60 Minutes” (here’s our profile of her)._____• Markets around the world have been shaken by the prospect of a trade war.But China’s response to President Trump’s sweeping protectionism has so far been muted, with just a few tit-for-tat tariffs. Our reporters say there’s a good reason: The U.S. tariffs will have only a small impact on China’s economy — and China could easily deepen the pain for the U.S. by blocking U.S. aircraft and soybeans from its markets.Here are some strong reactions from politicians, officials and analysts around the world. (And the U.S.-China contest for technological dominance is already red hot.).Beijing unexpectedly installed a party boss, Guo Shuqing, over its newly named central bank governor, Yi Gang._____• High-level officials from North and South Korea meet this week to discuss the agenda for the talks between their leaders, Kim Jong-un and Moon Jae-in.Around 30,000 North Koreans have successfully defected to the South in total, but far fewer are getting out under the reign of Mr. Kim.Our reporters reconstructed the harrowing story of five who never made it._____• Australia has evaded recession for 27 years, its economy buffered by supplying energy and raw materials like iron ore to the manufacturing economies of Asia, particularly China’s.And a plan to open “the Bight” — a pristine stretch of ocean that’s home to calving whales and teeming fisheries — to Norwegian drilling could help the country eclipse Qatar as the world’s largest exporter of natural gas.But opposition has been surprisingly strong. A woman who works in marine adventures in the Bight bemoaned the possible damage to “our fishing industry, our tourism industry, our lifestyle.”_____• Duke Tran, who once fled Vietnam and was enslaved by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, has waged a long legal fight against Wells Fargo, saying the bank fired him for blowing the whistle on deceptive practices.• Elon Musk joined a growing chorus of tech leaders calling for people to #DeleteFacebook, escalating his feud with Mark Zuckerberg.• Internet companies like Facebook and Google were built on a model in which people gave up their information for free services. Now, that idea is under siege.• The first nonstop flight between Australia and the U.K. reached London after a 17-hour flight from Perth. The head of Qantas called the new service a “game-changer.”• We obtained documents that show Uber’s self-driving cars were struggling even before one struck and killed a woman in Arizona.• Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• “Australia’s claim to playing hard but fair has evaporated for years to come.” So says a cricket analyst, pondering whether the national team’s captain, Steve Smith, will survive the scandal over blatant ball-tampering in South Africa. [ABC]• James Packer, 50, the Australian billionaire who last week resigned from his gambling empire over “mental health issues,” checked into a $5,000-per-night psychiatric hospital in the U.S. [News.com.au]• Carles Puigdemont, the former president of Catalonia who is wanted in Spain on sedition charges, was detained after he crossed into Germany from Denmark. [The New York Times] • The Chinese historian Shen Zhihua has an impeccable Communist Party pedigree, enabling him to shine a light on some of China’s darkest secrets — including those involving the Cold War and North Korea. [The New York Times]• Beggars working the subways in Wuhan, a major city in central China, can make as much as five times the national average daily wage, according to the local news media. [South China Morning Post]• Britain’s post-Brexit passports, hailed by Prime Minister Theresa May as “an expression of independence,” will be made in France. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Change your bad habit by replacing it with something different.• Explore how to age with meaning and happiness.• Recipe of the day: Embrace a meatless Monday with stir-fried peppers, eggplant and tofu.• Ata, a tiny, bizarrely formed mummy discovered in Chile, isn’t an alien after all — but the real story is almost as strange.• In memoriam:  Julie Yip-Williams, 42, a former refugee from Vietnam who blogged candidly about her colon cancer and the unfairness of life; Phan Van Khai, 84, a Soviet-trained former prime minister of Vietnam who helped overhaul the country’s economy and build ties with the U.S. • Finally, the joys and tribulations of coupling. Our audience editor in Sydney, fresh off her own honeymoon, offers Australia’s five most popular Modern Love columns … read into their popularity what you will.Last week, the Library of Congress in Washington announced its annual additions to the National Recording Registry, which honors significant pieces of American history and culture. (Here's the list.)We’d like to look at one: the original 1930 recording of “Lamento Borincano,” by Canario y Su Grupo.Known as an unofficial anthem of Puerto Rico, “Lamento Borincano” was composed by Rafael Hernández, one of the island’s most renowned and prolific songwriters (although he wrote it while living in New York City).The song’s title refers to Borinquen, a derivation of Puerto Rico’s indigenous name.The song reflects the plight of Puerto Rican farmers during the Great Depression. They faced not only the threat of hurricanes but also the economic changes brought after 1917, when Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship, leading to a wave of immigration north.The lyrics tell of a farmer who is “loco de contento” (crazy with happiness) at the prospect of selling his produce in town. But he arrives to find the town empty. With no one to buy anything, he returns to his farm demoralized. The song ends:“Borinquen, the land of EdenThe one that when singing, the great GautierHe called the pearl of the seas.Now that you dieWith your regretsLet me sing to you too.”Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
To the Editor:Re “How Small-Town America Sees Guns,” by Robert Leonard (Op-Ed, March 17):Some of us might remember a popular slogan from another time: “You can have my gun when you pry it from my cold, dead fingers.” It’s not a failure to understand these values; it’s a refusal to accept them as tenable.I grew up hunting pheasants and deer in eastern Pennsylvania. I spent 10 years in West Virginia. My wife is a Texan. Trust me, I know rural values. But we’re not talking about hunting pheasants with a .410 shotgun. We’re talking about assault weapons, about weapons of war. We’re talking about our children.Those of us who favor gun control are certainly capable of understanding the rural ethos that makes God and guns part of “first principles,” even though most of us would call such a principle a dangerous fallacy.Saying that for conservatives compromising first principles would be “more horrific and detrimental to society than any shooting” creates a tragic false dilemma. Either we choose guns. Or we choose our children. The Second Amendment is not inviolable. Our children are not expendable.SAM PRITCHARD, AMES, IOWATo the Editor:Robert Leonard concludes by stating, “If Democrats want to engage rural America culturally and politically, they need to understand us, and at least some of our ideals.” What, though, if we do understand you, but still think that your attitudes toward guns — at least the more extreme attitudes — are unhealthy?I’m a hunter myself and appreciate a nice shotgun as much as any farm boy. But when people’s identities start to be defined by their AR-15s and Glocks, when they start to believe that their liberty is under perpetual threat from vague and sinister forces, and when their sense of self-worth is tightly tied to their ability to exert deadly force over others, I don’t think they need understanding; I think they need therapy. Sometimes understanding a culture gives you reason to respect it less, not more.ROB LEWIS, OAKVILLE, ONTARIOTo the Editor:Most of the people I know from the Midwest — where I was born, raised and educated — are better, smarter and more willing to engage in serious dialogue than the caricatures Robert Leonard describes.They know that different views on how to reduce gun violence cannot be resolved by talk radio-style debates on human nature or the effects of “original sin” and that the real question is what can be done to reduce the incidence of gun violence in the future.Most small-town Americans also recognize that ignoring the evidence by dismissing it as “throwing around statistics” is not likely to encourage a healthy dialogue, particularly when common sense suggests — and studies have confirmed — that restricting access to assault weapons reduces the incidence of mass murders.Finally, they know that despite the N.R.A.’s fear-mongering, taking away rural America’s guns is not on the table and that we should be discussing real issues, not fake ones.DAN KASPERWEST STOCKBRIDGE, MASS.To the Editor:I appreciated Robert Leonard’s framing the gun-violence issue from a small-town perspective. To understand the deep attachment to guns, and the view that violence is the result of bad choices by people who lack moral guidance, is helpful to gun control advocates like me.I think the bigger question, if we as a nation want to substantially reduce gun violence, is which can we more realistically control: people’s bad choices or their access to highly lethal weapons? In my professional experience as a psychiatrist, I find it exceedingly difficult to change people who are not motivated to change. Reducing access is the only realistic option.RICHARD GOLDWASSERMILL VALLEY, CALIF.To the Editor:As a shooter who grew up in a small town, I believe the small-town holders of the views that Robert Leonard reports are misguided. The principal point of gun control is not confiscation of guns but keeping them out of the hands of people who are a danger to themselves and others.States like Connecticut and Massachusetts make a determined and fairly successful effort to do this. These states have some of the strictest firearms laws in the United States and the lowest per capita rate of gun deaths. As a holder of gun permits in both states, I’m familiar with the firearms regulatory schemes.Each state requires a would-be gun owner to pass a background check, usually be interviewed and provide evidence of having had satisfactory firearms training. If the applicant is barred by a felony conviction or other statutory disqualifiers, or is deemed unsuitable to carry a firearm, the application is denied.Unsuitability would include a history of suicidal ideation, alcohol or drug abuse, domestic violence, serious emotional problems that indicate a propensity to violence, or irresponsible behavior. In both states there is an appeals mechanism.The process takes several months, but I didn’t think it was onerous. Certainly, it seemed a reasonable predicate to allowing someone to own and carry a firearm.JAMES A. GREERCHESTNUT HILL, MASS.To the Editor:I am getting truly tired of hearing how I, an urbanite, a native New Yorker, has to “understand” the mind of my gun-loving rural compatriots. How about Middle America trying to understand urbanites like me, coming from a family that never owned a gun, has never seen the value of owning a weapon, and witnesses with horror the statistics of people of all ages killed in this country?Why don’t they take a good hard look at the examples of Australia and European countries that have enacted strict gun control and where children go to school without fear that this could be the last day of their lives?Who is being the stubborn party here? From where I sit, gun control advocates are the real pro-lifers in this country.ELLEN SHIRE, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Robert Leonard, in defending how small-town America looks at guns, notes that gun owners believe that having a gun makes them less likely to be a victim. Wrong. Study after study shows that having a gun in the house is more likely to lead to gun violence in the home. Study after study shows that states with looser gun restrictions have more gun deaths.Australia passed strong gun control laws in 1996 after a mass shooting. Murder by guns virtually stopped in that country. No Western countries other than ours have anywhere near the amount of gun carnage we do. Why? Better laws. This month a California teacher discharged his weapon by mistake in the classroom. It is no wonder that teachers overwhelmingly oppose arming teachers as a safety measure.Mr. Leonard seems to think that raising the age to buy a gun is a significant compromise. Maybe he should tell that to the grieving families who lost loved ones to the Las Vegas shooter, a man in his 60s who murdered innocent concertgoers with weapons barred by most civilized nations.RUTH DELL, TIBURON, CALIF.To the Editor:When I was in grade school, I vividly recall how once in a while the teacher would declare that some privilege or other would be infringed or abolished because it had been abused one too many times by just one or two of my classmates. And without fail, a few kids would respond to these announcements with red-faced, furious howls of “no fair, no fair!” I remember sitting in silent dismay at these moments, wondering why we all had to be punished for the actions of just one or two.And over the years, it probably occurred to me that the teacher had no choice but to prevent the means of disruption so that the class could function. Is it possible that some children, urban or rural, never learn this lesson?LARRY DEBLINGERMONROE, N.Y.
Demonstrators flooded streets across the globe in public protests on Saturday, calling for action against gun violence. Hundreds of thousands of marchers turned out, in the most ambitious show of force yet from a student-driven movement that emerged after the recent massacre at a South Florida high school.At the main event in Washington, survivors of mass shootings, including the one in Florida, rallied a whooping crowd — “Welcome to the revolution,” said one of the student organizers — and spoke of communities that are disproportionately affected by gun violence. “It is normal to see flowers honoring the lives of black and brown youth that have lost their lives to a bullet,” Edna Chavez, 17, said of her South Los Angeles neighborhood.• In New York, marchers bundled in bright orange — the official color of a gun control advocacy group — charged toward Central Park. And in Parkland, Fla., less than a mile from where the shooting took place last month, one protester’s eyes brimmed with tears, surrounded by the echoing chant, “Enough is enough!”• Small groups of counterprotesters supporting gun rights also marched in different cities. In Salt Lake City, demonstrators carried pistols and flags. One of their signs read: “What can we do to stop mass shootings? SHOOT BACK.” In Boston, opposing groups of protesters shouted at one another before the police intervened.• More than 800 protests were planned in every American state, including in some gun-friendly cities, and on every continent except for Antarctica, according to a website set up by organizers. Check out photos from around the world.• Planning for the events was spearheaded by a group of students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., who have emerged as national anti-gun figures in the wake of the shooting that left 17 dead.• Sharp-tongued and defiant, the student leaders hoped to elevate gun control as a key issue during the upcoming midterm elections, and to inspire their peers to register to vote en masse.• They were building on the success of a national school walkout this month, and gun control legislation in Florida that they helped to usher in. Their goal remains, as articulated online in the event’s mission statement, to “demand that a comprehensive and effective bill be immediately brought before Congress to address these gun issues.”• The White House responded to the demonstrations in a statement. “We applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their First Amendment rights today,” it read. On Friday, the Justice Department proposed banning so-called bump stocks, but President Trump signed a spending bill that included only some background check and school safety measures.• The Times had journalists covering the marches in Washington; New York; Boston; Montpelier, Vt.; Parkland, Fla; Dahlonega, Ga.; Chicago; Salt Lake City; Los Angeles; Seattle; Anchorage, Alaska; Rome; Berlin; and Tokyo. Follow them on Twitter.• Sign up for the Morning Briefing for news and a daily look at what you need to know to begin your day.The student activists emphasized that they would soon have access to the ballot box as they hope to build support for candidates who support universal background checks and bans on assault-style weapons.Large majorities of Americans say they support gun control measures like universal background checks. Yet when put directly to the people in a referendum in recent years, the results have been mixed. Here is a look at what polling and recent referendums reveal about the political challenges that face the student-led activists.At street intersections in Washington on Saturday, voter registration volunteers waved clipboards over their heads, shouting, “It takes less than three minutes!” They wore neon yellow shirts that read, “Register to vote!”“These Parkland students have already been able to make change that no one else could for decades,” said Carol Williams, a volunteer from West Chester, Pa.In Parkland on Saturday, Sari Kaufman, a Stoneman Douglas sophomore, urged people to “turn this moment into a movement” that would push out of office any politician who took money from the National Rifle Association.“They think we’re all talk and no action,” she said to loud applause and cheers, and urged the crowd to prove politicians wrong by voting in huge numbers.“Remember that policy change is not nearly as difficult as losing a loved one,” she said. “Don’t just go out and vote: Get 17 other people to go out and vote.”The crowd was particularly rousing in its appreciation of Casey Sherman, 17, a Douglas student and one of the Parkland rally organizers.“My love for Parkland had taken on a whole new meaning,” she said. “After all this heartbreak, we have come back stronger than ever. Those 17 people did not die in vain. We will stop at nothing until we make real, lasting change.”At the rally in Washington, the first speaker was Cameron Kasky, 17, a junior at Stoneman Douglas who last month challenged Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Republican, to stop accepting donations from the National Rifle Association. Mr. Kasky called for universal background checks on gun sales and a ban on assault rifles.“To the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down and stay silent: Wait your turn,” Mr. Kasky said. “Welcome to the revolution.”Another speaker, Edna Chavez, 17, a high school senior in Los Angeles, said she had lost her brother to gun violence. “Ricardo was his name. Can you all say it with me?” she asked.The crowd said his name over and over again, as Ms. Chavez smiled through tears.Alex Wind, 17, a junior at Stoneman Douglas, spoke about the need for legislative change.“To all the politicians out there, if you take money from the N.R.A., you have chosen death,” he said. “If you have not expressed to your constituents a public stance on this issue, you have chosen death. If you do not stand with us by saying we need to pass common sense gun legislation, you have chosen death. And none of the millions of people marching in this country today will stop until they see those against us out of office, because we choose life.”David Hogg, 17, a senior at the high school and one of the most recognizable faces of the movement, said: “Who here is going to vote in the 2018 election? If you listen real close, you can hear the people in power shaking.”Read more about what the day was like for other Stoneman Doulgas students.On Saturday, officials with Metro, the region’s subway system, said more than 207,000 rides had been taken on the system by 1 p.m., about half of the number by that time during the women’s march.A team of crowd science researchers led by the professor G. Keith Still of Manchester Metropolitan University in England estimated that about 180,000 people attended Saturday’s rally in Washington. They examined photographs, video and satellite imagery of the rally to estimate the crowd density in different areas of the demonstration. The number is less than half of the 470,000 that Mr. Still estimated had attended the women’s march in Washington in 2017.Ms. González spoke for just under two minutes on Saturday at the rally in Washington, describing the effects of gun violence in emotional detail and reciting the names of classmates who had been killed.Then she said nothing for four minutes and 26 seconds.She stared straight ahead during her period of silence onstage, her sometimes watery eyes fixed in the distance. Then a timer went off.“Since the time that I came out here, it has been six minutes and 20 seconds,” she said. “The shooter has ceased shooting, and will soon abandon his rifle, blend in with the students as they escape, and walk free for an hour before arrest.“Fight for your lives, before it’s someone else’s job,” she continued, and then walked offstage.In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio said early in the afternoon on Twitter that an estimated 150,000 people were marching. “You have to know when a revolution is starting,” he said.The musician Paul McCartney, speaking to CNN at the march, opened his jacket to show a T-shirt that read “We can end gun violence.”“This is what we can do, so I’m here to do it,” Mr. McCartney said. “One of my best friends was killed in gun violence right around here, so it’s important to me,” he added, referring to his Beatles bandmate John Lennon, who was shot and killed in December 1980 outside his apartment on the Upper West Side.As the crowd thickened before a rally in front of the Trump International Hotel and Tower near Columbus Circle, Mary Ann Jacobs, 55, of Sandy Hook, Conn., milled in the crowd with her husband.Ms. Jacobs was a library clerk during the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School. She barricaded herself in the school’s library, “in a closet hidden behind file cabinets” along with 18 fourth graders.“In the months after the shooting it took 100 percent of my personal focus to get up and go to work every day to take care of my surviving students,” she said.Tensions over guns seemed to converge in Salt Lake City, where a gun rights march kicked off just minutes before a gun control march.The gun rights rally drew hundreds of people, many carrying signs — “AR-15s EMPOWER the people,” one said.Brandon McKee was one of the many people with pistols on their hips. His daughter Kendall, 11, held a sign: “Criminals love gun control.”Mr. McKee said of the Washington marchers: “I believe it’s their goal to unarm America, and that’s why we’re here today. We’re not going to stand idly by and let them tell us what we can and cannot do.”As the gun rights advocates set off toward the Capitol, some began to heckle a gun control advocate, Linda Peer, 67, who had infiltrated the march line.“She’s not a true American!” one man yelled. “Shame on you!” the group chanted at her.In Boston, a clutch of Second Amendment supporters gathered in front of the Statehouse with signs that said, “Come and take it.”“We believe in the Second Amendment,” said Paul Allen, 62, a retired construction worker who lives in Salisbury, Mass. “You people will interpret it the way you want and we’ll interpret it for what it is — that law-abiding citizens who are true patriots have the right to bear arms.”Mr. Allen described supporters of gun control as “ignorant sheep who are being spoon-fed by liberal teachers.”“They haven’t read the Constitution and they don’t know what it means,” he said.Read more about these protests.Gun rights organizations were mostly quiet about the demonstrations on Saturday. A spokesman for the N.R.A. did not answer several emails requesting comment.On the eve of the march, Colion Noir, a host on NRATV, an online video channel produced by the gun group, lashed out at the Parkland students, saying that “no one would know your names” if someone with a weapon had stopped the gunman at their school.“These kids ought to be marching against their own hypocritical belief structures,” he said in the video, adding, “The only reason we’ve ever heard of them is because the guns didn’t come soon enough.”In places where gun control is less popular, demonstrators pooled together, trying to show that support for their cause extends beyond large, predominantly liberal cities.In Vermont, a rural state with a rich hunting culture and some of the nation’s weakest gun laws, marchers gathered at the Capitol in Montpelier. Organizers hoped that thousands would turn out by the end of the day — an ambitious goal in a city of 7,500 people.“I hope the national march is going to be impactful, but at least we know state by state that we can make change,” said Madison Knoop, a college freshman who organized the rally.In Dahlonega, Ga., several hundred people gathered outside a museum, a surprising show of strength for gun control in an overwhelmingly conservative region.“We’re going to be the generation that takes down the gun lobby,” Marisa Pyle, 20, said through a megaphone.Ms. Pyle, a student at the University of Georgia and an organizer of Saturday’s rally in Lumpkin County, challenged critics of the demonstrations across the country.“I’m starting to think they just want to shut us up because they’re scared of what we have to say,” Ms. Pyle said.Young people were scattered in a crowd dominated by people in middle age and older. There were few signs of counterprotesters. But as Ms. Pyle led a roll call of the Stoneman Douglas victims, a man in a passing vehicle yelled: “Trump! Trump! Trump!”In Anchorage, the largest city in Alaska, marchers gathered in weather that peaked above freezing around noon.Alaska has not seen a school shooting in two decades, but it has the highest rates of both gun-related deaths and suicides in the nation.High schoolers turned out in jean jackets and hoodies, and shoveled snow to clear paths for one another in the 24-degree weather.“Do you know how it feels to have the principal pretend over the intercom that the shooter is walking your way?” Elsa Hoppenworth, a 16-year-old junior at West Anchorage High School, asked a cheering crowd. “Those who do not contribute to change contribute to our death.”Melanie Anderson, a 44-year-old middle school teacher, held up a sign that said “teacher, not sharp shooter.”Keenly aware that Alaska is a pro-gun state, the students who marched and made speeches were careful to make clear that they were seeking modest reinforcements on existing gun laws, rather than all-out bans.Thousands of demonstrators came together at Chicago’s Union Park, where speaker after speaker rattled off grim statistics about the city’s endemic violence.“Chicago has been plagued with gun violence way before the Parkland shooting,” said Juan Reyes, a high school student. “Suddenly, people are talking about students not feeling safe in schools. But in reality, students in our city’s South and West Sides have never felt safe.”Speaking at the rally in Washington, Trevon Bosley, a 19-year-old Chicago resident whose older brother Terrell died of a gunshot wound in 2006, said, “We deserve the right to have a life without fear of being gunned down.”Mya Middleton, 16, also traveled to speak in Washington, where she recalled an encounter with an armed man who was stealing from a store when she was a high school freshman.“He pulls out this silver pistol and points it in my face and said these words that to this day haunt me and give me nightmares. He said, ‘If you say anything, I will find you.’ And yet I’m still saying something today,” she said, to loud cheers.Read more about how students from Chicago and Baltimore, which set a per capita record for homicides in 2017, experienced Saturday’s events.On Saturday in Tokyo, where guns are highly restricted and shootings are rare, dozens of protesters gathered with signs bearing the names of people who have been killed by gun violence. Participants, many of them American, took turns reading poems or sharing memories of family members or friends killed in shootings.“I think it is important not just to call for changes to our gun laws, not just to debate the subtleties of the Second Amendment, but to remember that it is people who have died because of our gun laws,” said Linda Gould, an American in Japan who organized the vigil.And in Nagoya, Japan, Mieko Hattori, the mother of Yoshihiro Hattori, a Japanese exchange student who was shot and killed in Baton Rouge, La., in the early 1990s, said earlier in the week, “I just wanted to convey our message: We support you from Japan.”In Rome on Saturday, demonstrators at the American Embassy chanted, “Hey hey, ho ho, the N.R.A. has got to go” and waved signs that read, “A Gun Is Not Fun” and “Am I Next?” The speakers at the rally included local students as well as Valentina and Gabriela Zuniga, a freshman and junior at Stoneman Douglas, who were on spring break.“We knew there were rallies all over the world, and we looked for one in Rome,” said Gabriela, 16, adding that her life had changed drastically since the shooting. “You go into class and see empty desks. It’s different for everyone now.”Near the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, 150 to 200 people, most of them Americans, held signs saying “bullets aren’t school supplies” and “Waffeln statt Waffen” (Waffles Instead of Weapons).Dylan von Felbert, 16, an 11th grader at the John F. Kennedy School in Berlin, said, “Our generation can be very apathetic — myself included — so I think it’s important to support those things you really believe in.”In Madrid, a small crowd — almost all of them Americans — braved a cold Saturday to gather in front of the American embassy. An American student read out a list of all the American school shootings since the Columbine massacre.Fiona Maharg Bravo attended with her 13-year-old daughter, Elena. Ms. Maharg Bravo grew up in Chicago but has lived in Madrid for more than 10 years.“It’s perhaps hard for people here to relate to what unfortunately is a uniquely American issue,” she said.
The survivors of the Parkland shooting have led a national call to action, and the nation has responded. Students have walked out of their schools in protest, businesses have cut ties with the N.R.A., and our collective frustration culminated in the March for Our Lives this weekend.Senator Charles Schumer has proposed three measures to reduce gun violence: expanded background checks, protective orders to disarm individuals at risk of violence or self-harm, and an assault weapons ban. These proposals are critically important. But there is another effective response that has been largely ignored: repeal of a law that prevents suits against the gun industry.A bedrock principle of the American legal system is accountability for wrongdoing. Businesses that cause harm may be held legally responsible in a court of law. Through the imposition of financial liability, our legal system encourages businesses to reduce harm to consumers by making their products safer and disclosing the risks associated with their use.Thanks in part to the accountability imposed by lawsuits, society knows more about the dangers of smoking, and tobacco companies market their products more responsibly. Automakers continually develop and install new safety features, and these innovations deliver results: From 1975 to 2016, the rate of motor vehicle deaths decreased by nearly half. While motor vehicle deaths have declined over the last two decades, firearm deaths have not: According to the most recent statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more people now die from firearms than motor vehicle accidents.This disturbing reality exists in large part because, unlike other industries, gun manufacturers and sellers are shielded from legal accountability. Bowing to years of intensive N.R.A. lobbying, Congress enacted the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act in 2005. The law bars most suits against gun manufacturers and sellers for the harm they cause, immunizing the gun industry from accountability for the tens of thousands of gun deaths that occur in the United States each year.Young people — and, as the Parkland survivors Emma González and David Hogg so eloquently remind us, young people of color — are hit especially hard. A recent study shows that firearms are now the third-leading cause of death for children ages 1 to 17 and, according to C.D.C. data, the leading cause of death for 15- to 24-year-olds. Numerous scientific studies indicate that keeping guns in a home endangers its residents. Studies have also shown that guns in the home are far more likely to be used in criminal assaults, homicides, suicides and accidental shootings than in self-defense.Yet the law enables the gun industry to advertise its products as safety devices that consumers need to protect themselves and their families without fear of legal liability.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 people were massacred and hundreds more injured, lawsuits were filed against the companies that organized the concert, own the hotel and made and sold the bump stock device the killer used to increase the firing rate of his weapons — everyone but the companies that made and sold his guns. That is because the gun manufacturers and sellers have a weapon that is not available to the concert organizers and hotel owner — statutory immunity.The N.R.A. claims that the act is necessary to protect gun manufacturers and sellers against unfounded lawsuits. Unlike cars, hammers, tobacco and alcohol, its argument goes, guns are intended to kill. But our legal system has multiple checks to filter out lawsuits that lack merit. There is no reason for the gun industry to have special protections that are unavailable to other businesses that sell products that pose far less risk of harm.One element of the N.R.A.’s argument is true: Guns are inherently dangerous. But there are proven ways to make them safer. One study found that more than 40 percent of accidental gun deaths could have been avoided if the gun was equipped with at least one safety feature. Because of the act, gun manufacturers have no incentive to include such features.After the Parkland shooting, American Outdoor Brands, Smith & Wesson’s parent company and the manufacturer of the weapon used in the Parkland shooting, announced that it would not “manufacture and market” products with additional safety features (including trigger-locking technology) and that it does not “invest in R. & D. in this area” because doing so would be “irresponsible.” Perhaps the repeal of the law would change this cynical narrative.Gun sellers likewise enjoy broad immunity. They can sell dozens of weapons and thousands of rounds of ammunition to a single buyer who could resell them on the black market or plan a mass shooting without fear of legal accountability. Federal law requires only a perfunctory background check, and the employee handling the background form may be an untrained clerk. Without the threat of civil liability, gun sellers have no incentive to adopt more rigorous procedures or to provide training to their employees, which could stop a violent tragedy at the point of sale.Democrats in Congress have introduced a bill to repeal the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. Congress should pass that bill. The gun industry doesn’t deserve a special legal perk that immunizes it from liability. And the victims of gun violence deserve their day in court.
WASHINGTON — Standing before vast crowds from Washington to Los Angeles to Parkland, Fla., the speakers — nearly all of them students, some still in elementary school — delivered an anguished and defiant message: They are “done hiding” from gun violence, and will “stop at nothing” to get politicians to finally prevent it.The students, as they seized the nation’s attention on Saturday with raised fists and tear-streaked faces, vowed that their grief about school shootings and their frustration with adults’ inaction would power a new generation of political activism.“If they continue to ignore us, to only pretend to listen, then we will take action where it counts,” Delaney Tarr, a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, where a gunman killed 17 people last month, told tens of thousands rallying in Washington. “We will take action every day in every way until they simply cannot ignore us any more.”For many of the young people, the Washington rally, called March for Our Lives, was their first act of protest and the beginning of a political awakening. But that awakening may be a rude one — lawmakers in Congress have largely disregarded their pleas for action on television and social media in the five weeks since the Parkland shooting.That reality helped drive the Parkland survivors in Washington, as they led a crowd that filled blocks of Pennsylvania Avenue between the White House and Capitol Hill. Thousands more rallied at about 800 “sibling” marches around the country and abroad, where students, like those in the capital, made eloquent calls for gun control and pledged to exercise their newfound political power in the midterm elections this fall.Aerial video captured seas of people — in front of Trump International Hotel in New York; in a central square in Tokyo; along the streets of Boston; at a rally in downtown Fort Worth, Tex.; and crammed into a park less than a mile from Stoneman Douglas High.Delivered in soaring speeches, emotional chants and hand-painted signs, the protesters’ messages offered angry rebukes to the National Rifle Association and politicians who have left gun laws largely intact for decades. A sign in Washington declared “Graduations, not funerals!” while another in New York said “I should be learning, not protesting.” Crowds in Chicago chanted “Fear has no place in our schools” as they marched.Celebrities, including Lin-Manuel Miranda, the “Hamilton” star, and the pop singers Ariana Grande and Miley Cyrus, performed in Washington, where politicians and adult activists were largely sidelined in favor of the fresh-faced students offering stories of fear and frustration, but also hope for change.The most powerful, and impassioned, moments came from the surviving students of the Parkland shooting, who declared themselves angry, impatient and determined to stop the slaughter.“Today, we march,” Ms. Tarr said. “We fight. We roar. We prepare our signs. We raise them high. We know what we want, we know how to get it and we are not waiting any more.”An 11-year-old girl from Virginia, Naomi Wadler, captivated her audience as she declared “Never again!” on behalf of black women and girls who have been the victims of gun violence.Calls like Naomi’s stood in stark contrast to action on Capitol Hill and at the White House in the hours before the rallies. President Trump signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill that took no significant new steps on gun control: It did nothing to expand background checks, impose additional limits on assault weapons, require a higher age for rifle purchases or curb the sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines.The spending legislation, which was viewed as the last opportunity this year for Congress to enact major new gun restrictions before the midterm elections in November, included only some school safety measures and modest improvements to the background check system.Organizers at national gun control groups, who provided logistical support and public relations advice as the students planned the Washington rally, said they believed that the students would not become disillusioned by the lack of immediate action in Congress. They noted that rallies took place in 390 of the country’s 435 congressional districts.“The mass shooting generation is nearing voting age,” said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety, a national group that advocates tougher gun laws. “They know the midterms are six months away, and they plan to make sure that they vote and they get others to register to vote. They are absolutely poised to turn this moment into a movement.”Gun rights organizations largely stayed silent on Saturday, following vigorous efforts since the Parkland shooting to squash any movement toward significant gun control legislation. A spokesman for the N.R.A. declined repeated requests for comment.On the eve of the march, Colion Noir, a host on NRATV, an online video channel produced by the gun group, lashed out at the Parkland students, saying that “no one would know your names” if someone with a weapon had stopped the gunman at their school.“These kids ought to be marching against their own hypocritical belief structures,” he said in the video, adding: “The only reason we’ve ever heard of them is because the guns didn’t come soon enough.”Small counterprotests took place in a few cities. In Salt Lake City, several hundred people gathered near a high school, some carrying signs with messages like “AR-15’s EMPOWER the people.” Brandon McKee, who wore a pistol on his belt, brought his daughter, Kendall, 11, who held a sign that said “Criminals love gun control.”“I believe it’s their goal to unarm America, and that’s why we’re here today,” Mr. McKee said of the Washington marchers. In Boston, about 20 protesters favoring gun control confronted a small clutch of Second Amendment supporters in front of the State House. The two sides quickly got into a shouting match.The pro-gun protests were swamped in size and enthusiasm by those marching for gun control, many of whom traveled for many hours to attend the rallies in cities across the country. Sebastian Jennings, 18, said he spent 36 hours taking a bus to Washington from western Arkansas. Tour buses lined the streets.Security was tight in Washington, where military trucks and guards blocked almost every intersection near the rally amid a huge police presence, and in other cities where marches and rallies forced the closing of major roads.In towns like Dahlonega, Ga., smaller rallies sought to demonstrate a desire for new gun restrictions even in rural, Republican-leaning communities where gun ownership is common and support for the Second Amendment is strong.“We’re going to be the generation that takes down the gun lobby,” Marisa Pyle, 20, said through a red megaphone to a group of several hundred people gathered in front of the Dahlonega Gold Museum.Around the world, Americans living abroad gathered to honor those who have died in school shootings and to echo the call for gun control.Protesters in Rome jammed the sidewalk across from the American Embassy, next to the upscale Via Veneto, raising their voice in chants — “Hey hey, ho ho, the N.R.A. has got to go,” and waving signs with messages like “A gun is not fun” and “Am I next?” many made by high school students at an international school.About 150 to 200 people in Berlin gathered in solidarity in front of the Brandenburg Gate, just steps from the American Embassy. Many carried hand-painted signs, among them: “Arms should be for hugging,” “Bullets aren’t school supplies” and “Waffeln statt Waffen” (Waffles instead of weapons).One of the largest rallies outside Washington was at a Florida park not far from Stoneman Douglas High School. During that event, 17 students from the school silently took the stage to represent their friends who had been killed.Anthony Montalto, the brother of Gina Rose Montalto, one of those killed, held a sign that said: “My sister could not make it here today. I’m here for her.”“Turn this moment into a movement,” Sari Kaufman, a sophomore at Stoneman Douglas, implored the sea of students, parents and teachers. She urged her classmates to vote out of office politicians who receive money from the N.R.A. “They think we’re all talk and no action.”But the largest rally, by far, was in Washington, where stage risers and giant television monitors were set up in the shadow of the Capitol — the focus of much of the anger from students throughout the day.One protester carried a sign that said “If the opposite of pro is con, then the opposite of progress is Congress.”Most Republican and Democratic members of Congress had already left the city to return to their home districts for spring break. Mr. Trump spent Saturday afternoon in Florida, at the Trump International Golf Club, less than an hour north of Parkland. A White House spokeswoman said in a statement, “We applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their First Amendment rights today.”City officials had prepared for the biggest march since about a half-million women gathered on the day after Mr. Trump’s inauguration, declaring a new political movement aimed at resisting the president and his policies.On Saturday, officials with Metro, the region’s subway system, said more than 207,000 rides had been taken on the system by 1 p.m., about half of the number by that time during the Women’s March.A team of crowd science researchers led by G. Keith Still of Manchester Metropolitan University in England estimated that about 180,000 people attended the rally. They examined photographs, video and satellite imagery to estimate the crowd density in different areas of the demonstration. The number is less than half of the 470,000 that Dr. Still estimated had attended the Women’s March in Washington in 2017.Even so, the streets of Washington were packed on Saturday. Teenagers climbed on each other’s shoulders to reach the bare limbs of trees, where they climbed higher. And each student who spoke drew a cheer that matched, and even eclipsed, the applause given to the musical performers.Edna Chavez, 17, a high school senior from Los Angeles, said she had lost her brother to gun violence: “He was in high school when he passed away. It was a day like any other day. Sunset down on South Central. You hear pops, thinking they’re fireworks.”“Ricardo was his name. Can you all say it with me?” she asked. The crowd said his name over and over again, as Ms. Chavez smiled through tears.Naomi Wadler, the 11-year-old student, introduced herself with a soft “hi” and said she represented the black women who have been victims of gun violence.“People have said that I am too young to have these thoughts on my own,” she said. “People have said that I am a tool of some nameless adult. It’s not true. My friends and I might still be 11, and we might still be in elementary school, but we know.”She added, “And we know that we have seven short years until we, too, have the right to vote.”
