Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | As hundreds of thousands of demonstrators prepared to march in Washington in response to the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., students on the South Side of Chicago felt sympathy, but also frustration.Why hadn’t the gun violence in their community earned the nation’s outrage?On today’s episode:• Sameen Amin, a senior video producer at The New York Times.Background coverage: • Video: Ke’Shon Newman’s brother was shot and killed on the South Side of Chicago, where gun violence is a daily threat. He decided to join the march in Washington with high school students from Parkland, Fla.• For some students who joined protests against gun violence over the weekend, bloodshed doesn’t come in isolated bursts of mass slaughter, it’s a constant urban reality.• Highlights from the March for Our Lives: Students protesting guns say “enough is enough.”Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”
Before reading the article: Did you attend an anti-gun violence rally on Saturday? If so, what was it like? Did you see news reports of rallies that took place around the United States and in other countries? What do you think about when you look at the images from the protests?Watch the video above. What is your reaction to what you saw and heard? Do you agree with the idea stated by one of the speakers that only teenagers could have started the movement to end gun violence? Why or why not?1. Roughly how many rallies took place on Saturday? Where are some of the places mentioned?2. Why does the article suggest that the “political awakening” these events may serve for their participants “may be a rude one?”3. Who is Naomi Wadler?4. What does the author mean by the sentence, “Calls like Naomi’s stood in stark contrast to action on Capitol Hill and at the White House in the hours before the rallies?”5. Who is John Feinblatt? What did he give as the reasons he believes that the student protesters won’t become disillusioned by the “lack of immediate action in Congress?”6. Where did counterprotests take place? What did speakers at those rallies talk about?Finally, tell us more about what you think: The related article “At Rallies, Students With a Different View of Gun Violence: As Urban Reality” describes the experiences of people who attended marches on Saturday and had “a different idea of the problem” of gun violence: not mass shootings like the one that happened at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School but those shootings that are “a never-ending feature of life” in cities like Baltimore and Chicago.Read the article and discuss the points raised by the protesters.
New Jersey already has gun laws that are widely considered to be among the toughest in the country. One prominent national group that promotes stricter legislation has graded New Jersey as A-minus on its scorecard of gun laws, ranking it second among states, while the National Rifle Association has lamented that “Trenton’s appetite for gun control is insatiable.”Still, the state’s gun laws are poised to become even more stringent. Lawmakers have put forward a package of bills that would, among other things, limit the magazine capacity of guns, ban ammunition capable of penetrating body armor and require residents to demonstrate a “justifiable need” for a permit to carry a gun.Supporters say that their efforts have been invigorated by the demonstrations in Washington and across the country over the weekend to decry gun violence, which were motivated by the deadly mass shooting last month at a Florida high school. Assemblyman Louis D. Greenwald, who supports the legislation, described the response in New Jersey as evidence that “government is listening.”“There’s a movement that’s afoot,” Mr. Greenwald, a Democrat from Voorhees, said in an interview. “It really is, enough is enough.”On Monday, the bills were approved the Democratic-controlled State Assembly. They await a vote in the Senate, where Democrats also hold a majority, and the governor, Philip D. Murphy, also a Democrat, has indicated his support.New Jersey was ranked behind only California in having the most stringent gun restrictions by the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, named for Gabrielle Giffords, the former congresswoman who was gravely injured by gunfire in 2011 and survived. New York and Connecticut have similarly strong gun laws. Florida, which had been considered far less restrictive, responded to the shooting last month by passing some of its first gun-control measures in two decades, including raising the minimum age to buy a firearm to 21, banning bump stocks and allowing school employees to be armed.Already in New Jersey, permits are required for the purchase of any handgun. Assault weapons and large-capacity ammunition magazines have been banned, and the state prohibits people with misdemeanor domestic violence convictions or people limited by protective orders from buying or possessing a firearm.The proposed measures, consisting of a half-dozen separate bills, would limit magazine capacity to 10 rounds and require background checks for private gun sales. The legislation would also allow for extreme risk protective orders meant to prevent people deemed to pose a significant danger from owning or buying a firearm, and it would expand the requirements of mental health providers and other medical workers to report patients to law enforcement if they are believed to pose a threat to themselves or others.The legislation would also codify in state law the requirement of “justifiable need,” which means that an applicant would have to show that they had been subjected to attacks or threatened — “something beyond a generalized desire to have a gun in public for self-defense,” according to Allison Anderman, the managing attorney at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.The measures have faced considerable opposition from gun-rights organizations, who protested in Trenton on Monday as the Assembly voted on the legislation. “We think they’re misguided and they won’t make anybody safer,” said Scott Bach, the executive director of the Association of New Jersey Rifle and Pistol Clubs.Mr. Bach argued that the legislation was an incursion on the Second Amendment rights of gun owners. The limits on magazine capacity would turn people who own weapons with larger capacities “into criminals with the stroke of a pen.”He said his organization and others vowed to fight the laws in court. He viewed the effort as a reflection of lawmakers’ hostility over guns and said the proposed restrictions were part of “a constant and never-ending call for more, regardless of the facts, regardless of the circumstances.”“Enough already,” Mr. Bach said. “Enough. Stop targeting honest citizens and instead severely punish criminals. New Jersey doesn’t get that and we think it’s because New Jersey doesn’t want to get that.”The legislation was revived after the former governor, Chris Christie, a Republican, vetoed numerous gun control measures while he was in office, including one that would have limited magazine capacity and regulations to make it more difficult to obtain a concealed carry permit. He supported loosening the state’s restrictions, calling them “overly burdensome.”But supporters of tougher restrictions said the measures gained new traction in recent months, bolstered by the surge in attention prompted by recent episodes of mass violence and the election of Mr. Murphy, who had campaigned on tougher gun restrictions. Mr. Murphy had also been endorsed during the campaign by Ms. Giffords.Mr. Murphy has supported the measures in the Legislature, which he described as “common sense gun measures to protect our communities and families.”“The people of New Jersey have demanded we act,” Mr. Murphy said in a statement on Monday, “and we must.”
MADISON, Wis. —  Some Wisconsin students are taking the momentum of weekend demonstrations against gun violence on the road — straight to House Speaker Paul Ryan's district.About 40 students launched a "50 Miles More" march from Madison on Sunday. They planned to make it to Janesville, Ryan's home turf, on Wednesday for a rally.As the students trekked through rural Wisconsin on Monday, organizer Brendan Fardella said they were determined to keep people passionate about their issue."We want to keep it going, we want to keep it in the news cycle, keep people empowered and passionate for as long as we can until there's common sense gun reform or until we get to November and all of these politicians are up for re-election and we vote them out if they don't do anything," Fardella said.Law enforcement escorted the students, who chanted things like "Hey, hey NRA, how many kids did you kill today?" and carried signs like "Protect kids, not guns."The students said they want a ban on military style weapons, a ban on accessories to turn semi-automatic weapons into automatic weapons, a four-day waiting period on all gun purchases, background checks on all gun sales and raising the legal purchasing age on guns to 21.Adult volunteers were walking with students during the day. The group planned to spend the nights in schools along the route."The support we've been getting from people has been so amazing that it makes me want to keep going," Tatiana Washington, a student from Milwaukee, said."I do have a bit of blisters on my feet but other than that I'm good," Washington said. "I like it."
WASHINGTON —  With passage of an enormous budget bill, the GOP-controlled Congress all but wrapped up its legislating for the year. But will it be enough to convince voters to give Republicans another term at the helm?In two big ways, Republicans have done what they promised. They passed a long sought tax overhaul bill that slashed tax rates. They've rolled back regulations, in ways they claim are boosting the economy. In the Senate, they confirmed a justice to the Supreme Court.But there are signs Americans wanted more: immigration reforms, gun control legislation, even an infrastructure plan that President Donald Trump promised voters. Tax cuts, for now, will have to do."It's very clear that tax reform was going to be the biggest legislative crown jewel of this Congress," said Matt Gorman, the spokesman for the House GOP's campaign arm, the National Republican Congressional Committee. "That is a massive centerpiece of our campaign."But polls swing wildly these days, strategists said. Voters are rarely focused for too long on single issues that can make or break campaigns, as when Republicans seized control of the House in 2010 amid the economic downturn or Democrats pushed to the majority in 2006 over opposition to the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and congressional ethics scandals.Trump's mixed messages on the GOP's accomplishments only make the campaigning more difficult. At the White House on Friday, he toyed with a veto of the $1.3 trillion budget package, complaining it lacked his immigration deal and smacked of overspending, before ultimately signing it. Such shifting views leave Republicans without a reliable partner as they try to push through political headwinds in what's expected to be a tough battle for majority control of the House and Senate.Lawmakers left town for a two-week recess that marks the unofficial end of the legislating season having shelved resolution of other issues.Congress failed to pass legislation to curb rising health insurance premiums or protect young immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation, two issues that have stirred voters this year. And ahead of the nationwide "March for Our Lives" protests against gun violence, lawmakers took modest steps to boost school safety funds and improve compliance with the federal gun purchase background check system.Kris Brown, co-president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, said the measures are "just not enough.""The American people have been screaming from the rooftops for real, bold change to fight against" tragedies such as the Florida and Las Vegas shootings, Brown said. "We have seen the consequences of Congress's inaction."Congress' spring agenda is thin. It includes modest plans to finish a banking bill that rolls back some of the regulations put in place after the financial crisis and pass a big farm bill that sets agriculture and school nutrition policies. The Senate also has to begin confirmation hearings for Trump's nominees for secretary of state and CIA director.The one legislative lift will be another spending bill when the one Trump signed into law expires at the end of September. But it may bring more political risk than reward for Republicans, since conservatives largely sided with the president against this one, and could pose a more serious threat of voter revolt in the fall.Strategists say it will be up to candidates to make the case that GOP's signature legislative accomplishment is worth their re-election.Democrats have been hammering on the tax law as a giveaway to big business, in part because the steep reduction in corporate rates, from 35 percent to 21 percent, is permanent while the reduced rates for individuals and other provisions for families, including expanded child tax credits, expire in coming years.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi has derided the lopsided benefits for households as "crumbs" — a quip Republicans eagerly throw back at Democrats.To prop up public opinion of the GOP's top accomplishment, millions are being spent by outside groups. American Action Network, which is aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, is unleashing more than $30 million in ads, and the network backed by the influential Koch brothers will spend more than $20 million, heaping praise on lawmakers who voted for the tax cuts and informing voters about those who didn't.And with passage of tax cuts so important to the GOP election effort, Republicans might take the unusual step of trying to pass them again."We think there's more we can do," Ryan said.House GOP leaders are seriously considering legislation this summer — "Tax Cuts 2" — that would try to build on the original bill that became law in December by making the individual tax cuts permanent.A do-over tax cuts bill is not expected to pass this Congress. But setting up another showdown accomplishes political goals for Republicans by turning attention back to the tax law, and pushing Democrats into the uncomfortable position of voting against it, again.Americans for Prosperity, one of the groups in the Koch network, launched an ad campaign urging Congress to fortify the law by making tax cuts permanent. "More needs to be done," the group says on a website for its advocacy."Even if there are things that get passed between now and the fall, the bottom line is the single most important piece of legislation is going to be the tax bill," said veteran strategist David Winston, who advises House and Senate GOP leadership. "That defines what this Congress is about."___
(Reuters) - About 40 high schoolers from Wisconsin are using the start of their spring break vacation to bring the weekend's national wave of gun control marches to the hometown of Republican U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan.The group on Monday was approaching the halfway point in its four-day, 50-mile (80-km) trek from the state capital of Madison to Janesville, Wisconsin in an event they were calling "March for Our Lives: 50 Miles More."The event is billed as a continuation of the marches and demonstrations on Saturday that saw hundreds of thousands of teens take to the streets of Washington and other U.S. cities nationwide to call for stricter gun laws in the wake of last month's shooting at a Florida high school that left 17 dead.President Donald Trump on Friday signed a $1.3 trillion budget passed by the Republican-controlled Congress that included some tweaks to U.S. gun laws including modest improvements to background checks and grants to schools to prevent gun violence.The Wisconsin marchers on their website laid out additional demands for Ryan including that he back legislation that would ban military-style weapons for civilians, impose a national four-day waiting period on gun purchases and raise the minimum age to legally buy firearms to 21.A representative for Ryan did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Ryan, who was out of the country on Monday for the first day of an official visit to the Czech Republic, last month told a news conference that congressional Republicans were not interested in preventing Americans from owning certain types of weapons."We shouldn't be banning guns from law-abiding citizens," Ryan said at the time. "We should be focusing on making sure that citizens who should not get guns in the first place don't get those guns."The students, who had marched more than 20 miles (32 km) by Monday, were spending nights on the road in schools, said Aileen Berquist, a spokeswoman for the Wisconsin march who also works for March On, a women-led political activist organization. They plan on arriving in Janesville by Wednesday, she said.Videos on Twitter showed the students marching and chanting: "Hashtag 50 more, that's what we're here for! We're walking 50 miles right up to your front door."Students from a high school outside Milwaukee thought up the march, with students from elsewhere around the state joining them, Berquist said.(Reporting by Gina Cherelus in New York; editing by Scott Malone, G Crosse)
NEW YORK —  They have walked out, marched and demanded action across America to stop gun violence. But it's far from certain that the young people behind the "March for Our Lives" movement will be a political force at the ballot box this fall.Republicans are skeptical. Democrats are hopeful. And outside groups that favor gun control aren't taking any chances.Organizations aligned with Democrats on gun control are spending tens of millions of dollars to ensure that young voters' passion and enthusiasm doesn't fade before the November midterm elections, when the Republican Party's control of Congress will be put to the test."Other people look at those young people and think organizing them makes no sense because they don't vote," said Tom Steyer, the billionaire hedge-fund magnate-turned-liberal activist who has committed at least $31 million this year to what is believed to be the largest youth vote organizing effort in American history. "We really believe in this generation."Past voting patterns show how much work Steyer and others have ahead of them. Just 15 percent of eligible voters between the ages of 18 and 20 cast ballots in the last midterm election.Still, the mobilization of young people following last month's shooting at a Parkland, Florida, high school has raised the prospect of a shift that could re-shape the American political landscape this fall — and perhaps for much longer.Student leaders from Parkland have already succeeded in keeping the gun debate from quickly fading, as is often the case after mass shootings, though that hasn't resulted in any significant congressional action. Hundreds of thousands of people, many of them in high school, participated in protest marches across the country Saturday. New waves of protests are already being planned for next month.Their efforts are being aided by powerful groups that favor stricter gun laws. Everytown for Gun Safety, an organization backed by billionaire Michael Bloomberg, expects to spend more money shaping the 2018 midterms than any other election — and much of it on youth engagement, said chief operating officer Matt McTighe.The organization already spent more than $1 million to help student organizers participate in last weekend's marches. They're now focused on helping high school and college students nationwide organize their own "Students Demand Action" groups, a spinoff of the organization's "Mom's Demand Action" against gun violence chapters. Everytown also helped young people establish the non-profit group that coordinated the weekend marches, while in some cases paying for nuts-and-bolts items like sound systems and stages."They've got the energy. They've got the passion. They don't necessarily have the resources or the policy expertise," McTighe said. "We're going to be investing heavily in these students and making sure they engage in politics in every race and every single district across the country."Additionally, groups backed by Steyer, Bloomberg and former Rep. Gabby Giffords will launch nationwide voter drives on high school campuses in the coming weeks. The operation, according to Giffords' executive director Peter Ambler, will especially target "districts and states where new young voters can have the most impact." Giffords' group, like its allies, will also devote significant resources to sophisticated get-out-the-vote operations targeting young voters."They're very powerful right now," Ambler said. "I'm very excited to see what they do with that power."Republican strategists suggest that the youth movement could prove particularly troubling for their candidates in America's suburbs, where dozens of vulnerable GOP House incumbents already face a wave of Democratic enthusiasm and skepticism from moderate Republicans dissatisfied with President Donald Trump's job performance.It's less clear whether a surge in youth turnout would sting Republican candidates in Senate races playing out in rural states like North Dakota and West Virginia, where a fight over gun control could motivate Trump's most passionate supporters as well.Republicans are skeptical that young voters, who typically favor Democratic candidates by large margins, will stay interested."Motivation is fleeting," said Republican strategist Chris Wilson.While equally skeptical about the short-term impact, Republican pollster Frank Luntz warned his party that a mass migration of young voters to the Democratic Party could endanger GOP candidates for years to come."There are a lot of dark clouds ahead for Republicans," Luntz said. "The impact of the youth vote isn't immediate, but it could well have the greatest impact of all."Young voters, with few exceptions, have struggled to maintain interest in politics over the last half century.In 1972, when the voting age was first lowered to 18, nearly 56 percent of eligible 18- to 20-year-olds voted, according to an analysis by the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement at Tufts University. Participation has trended downward ever since, with one exception being President Barack Obama's first presidential election.But in the first midterm election of Obama's presidency, participation rates for 18- to-20-year-old voters regressed to just 18 percent."This energy we're seeing right now is in March. The election is seven months away. It takes a lot to keep up this enthusiasm," said Kei Kawashima-Ginsberg, director of the Tufts center.She suggested that interest groups and political campaigns could help motivate young people, as Obama did in 2008, but young voters are more likely to be influenced by people they encounter at home or school.It's also unclear whether issues alone, even one as powerful as gun violence, can lead to lasting political change. Kawashima-Ginsberg's center studied the impact of high-profile ballot issues that might appeal to young voters — the legalization of marijuana and same-sex marriage — in past elections, finding that such social issues alone typically had little impact.Steyer, for his part, is prepared to spend whatever it takes to ensure young voters don't get distracted. His $31 million pledge, he said, is simply "the floor" of what he's prepared to spend this year."What we're trying to do is organize as well as possible to make sure that they get a chance to raise their voices," he said, "but also to make sure their votes are counted on Nov. 6."_
NEW YORK —  Some of Wall Street's heaviest hitters are stepping into the national debate on guns as investment firms ask firearms makers what they are doing about gun violence.The firms speak softly, but because they own trillions of dollars' worth of stock, their voices travel far. And they're now joining forces with some unusual allies, including smaller and untraditional investors. In this context, the investment fund BlackRock, which owns big stakes in three different gun makers, might end up working alongside a group of nuns.Sister Judith Byron, the director and coordinator of the Northwest Coalition for Responsible Investment, says her group and BlackRock appear to have similar ideas when it comes to gun manufacturers and retailers. Following the killing of 17 students and teachers at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, funds like BlackRock started asking gun manufacturers what they are doing to reduce the risks of gun violence, and asking retailers how much they make from selling guns.Byron says her group, a coalition of religious communities and health care systems, invested in firearms makers a decade ago and has been working on gun safety issues for years. In the last few months the coalition introduced resolutions pushing American Outdoor Brands, Sturm Ruger and retailer Dick's Sporting Goods to give reports to investors about the steps they are taking to reduce gun violence."We're hoping we can engage these big investors and encourage them to vote for our resolutions," she says.Some larger investors have similar views. The biggest public pension funds in the U.S., CalPERS, recently refused to sell its investments in companies that sell assault rifles. It says that by remaining an investor, it's been able to get those companies to make positive changes.The nuns aren't protesters, and they don't carry props or signs to disrupt board meetings, although they sometimes work alongside groups that use those tactics. Byron says some of the shareholder meetings she's attended have been downright pleasant, with investors and board members thanking her for asking questions.Support from investment firms was crucial to the coalition's big success last year when, after decades of work, it backed a successful resolution that required oil giant Exxon Mobil to disclose the effects climate change is having on its business.Erik Gordon, a professor at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, said companies are often reluctant to risk any sales in order to do the responsible thing. But it does sometimes happen, as when CVS stores stopped selling cigarettes in 2014. He said activists deserve most of the credit for getting the funds to speak out."BlackRock didn't wake up one morning and say, 'We are going to take a different approach to investing, it's the right thing to do,'" he said. "It's a reaction to the activists."The top priority of firms like BlackRock, State Street and mutual fund company Vanguard is to make as much money as possible for their clients. But because they own so much stock, they can wield a lot of influence: They can support new directors who want to change the direction of the company and back proposals that change the way it operates.BlackRock is a major shareholder in gun makers Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands, and Vista Outdoor Brands. About a week after the shooting in Parkland, BlackRock said it wanted to speak with the three firearms makers about their responses to the tragedy. The fund said it is looking into creating new investment funds for investors that exclude firearms makers and retailers, and if many funds and investors followed suit, that would affect the price of those stocks.In a letter to BlackRock, American Outdoor Brands said it supports steps that will promote gun safety while protecting the rights of firearm owners. The company said it backs measures including improved background checks and improved support for people with mental illnesses, but said it's opposed to "politically motivated action" that won't improve public safety. Sturm Ruger did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In other words, there are limits to the funds' power. They aren't choosy investors and won't dump the gun makers no matter what they say. That's because their main investment strategy to invest in huge numbers of companies, including every stock listed on the Standard & Poor's 500 index.According to Todd Rosenbluth, CFRA's director of research into funds and exchange-traded funds, that means BlackRock and Vanguard don't have that much leverage compared to activist investors or hedge funds. Those investors can have more dramatic effects on individual companies because they can buy up the stock, run for seats on the board themselves, or threaten to sell the shares if they don't like the company's choices."They can use their wallet and sell the shares or they can pressure the companies and threaten to sell the shares if actions aren't taken," said Rosenbluth. So far, he said those investors aren't really getting involved in the debate.Still, there have been changes: Dick's, Walmart, Kroger and L. L. Bean have all said they will no longer sell guns to shoppers under the age of 21. Rosenbluth said that has more to do with the ongoing national debate about gun safety and regulations than anything the investment firms have said, and he believes laws will ultimately have a larger effect.But Byron, who also wants new gun laws, says she is encouraged by the response from corporate America."We see companies taking leadership roles in environmental and social issues, which is encouraging," said Byron, adding that as shareholders, "they're our companies. We own them."
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. —  Republican Gov. Rick Scott appears ready to jump into Florida's Senate race, setting up a high-profile showdown against incumbent Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson.Scott on Monday announced plans to make a "major announcement" on April 9. The move came a day after a top Scott aide, Jackie Schutz Zeckman, resigned as the governor's chief of staff.Zeckman, who has worked for Scott since his first year in office, would not provide any additional details about the governor's political plans. She worked on Scott's re-election campaign four years ago.Scott, who had a scheduled news conference at a central Florida state park on Monday, sidestepped questions about his plans, but encouraged reporters to attend the announcement."It's going to be a fun day," Scott said.Scott, who is leaving office in early 2019, has been mulling a run against Nelson for more than a year. The 65-year-old governor has recently been ramping up his criticism of the three-term incumbent and the two men have traded jabs over gun violence and what should be done in the aftermath of the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School that killed 17 people.President Donald Trump has already publicly encouraged Scott to run. Scott, meanwhile, since last year has also been raising money for a federal super PAC."I fully expect him to run," said Brian Ballard, a well-known lobbyist who has close ties to both Scott and Trump. "I have expected him to run for two years."Nelson, who has already said he will seek another term, was first elected to the U.S. Senate in 2000 after spending time as the state's insurance commissioner and as a U.S. congressman. Nelson, who will turn 76 this fall, is the only statewide elected Democrat in Florida.He has won his last two elections easily but Scott may be the most formidable opponent he has encountered since he lost the Democratic primary for governor in 1990.Scott, a multi-millionaire former businessman, has built-in advantages for his campaign: He can rely on his own money, he can point to job growth under his watch as governor, and his handling of the aftermath of Hurricane Irma has helped his poll numbers.Scott shocked the GOP establishment eight years ago when he jumped into the race for governor.He narrowly won that year by focusing on the economy and jobs, yet he was considered an underdog because back in 1997 because he had been forced out of his job as the head of Columbia/HCA amid a federal investigation into fraud. Although Scott was never charged with any wrongdoing, the company paid a then-record $1.7 billion fine for Medicare fraud.Democratic aligned groups have already been anticipating a Scott run and have been hammering away at his record. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee earlier this month launched two digital ads that sharply criticized the governor and one of them mentioned the fine against Columbia/HCA.Joshua Karp, a spokesman for the group American Bridge, called Scott a "wealthy insider" and "untrustworthy politician" and predicted "Floridians would reject his failed record" in November.
MONTPELIER, Vt. —  Legislation that would make it easier to take guns from suicidal people and perpetrators of domestic violence could receive final approval from the Vermont Legislature this week and Gov. Phil Scott supports the proposals, officials said Monday.Democratic Sen. Richard Sears, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Monday he felt the separate pieces of legislation could reach Scott's desk by the end of the week. House Judiciary Chairman Maxine Grad, also a Democrat, said she expected the legislation would pass, but she didn't know if the bills could reach the governor's desk so quickly.Vermont lawmakers appear to be on the verge of passing the most significant changes to the state's gun laws in years."It is a big deal," said Grad, who has been working with Sears so the two committees can iron out the differences between the different pieces of legislation."I think the bills that we have been passing really create a balance in terms of maximizing public safety and preventing gun deaths and gun violence while supporting and maintaining Vermont traditions," she said.Grad and Sears made the comments a day before the Vermont House of Representatives is expected to give final approval to a separate piece of legislation that would raise the legal age for gun purchases, expand background checks and ban high-capacity magazines and rapid-fire devices known as "bump stocks." The legislation, which was given preliminary approval on Friday, will need to be reconciled with a Senate version passed earlier this month before it could become law.It's unclear how long it would take the House and Senate to reconcile the competing versions. Sears said his first choice would be to appoint a House and Senate conference committee to iron out the differences. Grad said it's up to the Senate to deal with the legislation passed by the House.The push for gun control legislation came after Vermont police broke up what they said was a plot by a Poultney teenager to shoot up the Fair Haven Union High School. He was arrested the day after the Feb. 14 shooting at a Parkland, Florida, high school that killed 17.In the bill aimed at taking guns from suicidal people, police would be able to seize firearms with a judge's order. The other proposal would allow police to remove guns in cases of possible domestic violence while allowing a quick hearing to justify the seizure.A spokeswoman for Scott said he supports the two pieces of legislation that are expected to receive final approval as "commonsense reforms that keep guns out of the hands of those who should not have them."Grad said that once these pieces of legislation are finished the Legislature is considering a number of other proposals to enhance school safety.Sears said that in a five-year period, 90 percent of Vermont gun deaths were due to suicides and half of the state's homicides are incidents of domestic violence, which in many cases are carried out with firearms."I think both bills deal with what are Vermont's real gun-related problems," Sears said.___This story has been corrected to show House legislation to expand background checks needs to be reconciled with a version that has passed in the Senate.
