WASHINGTON — Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Friday that the Justice Department was proposing to ban so-called bump stocks through regulations rather than wait for Congress to act, a move that defies recommendations by federal law enforcement officials and could subject the department to litigation from gun rights groups.Mr. Sessions’s announcement came moments after President Trump said on Twitter that the Justice Department would imminently announce a rule banning bump stocks.It also comes amid rising public pressure on Washington to curb gun violence after a mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., that left 17 people dead last month. Students will gather Saturday in Washington to protest gun violence for an event called March for Our Lives.The Justice Department’s proposed rule “would define ‘machine gun’ to include bump-stock-type devices under federal law — effectively banning them,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement.The proposed bump stock ban would defy the conclusion of Justice Department officials who have said that they could not, under existing law, stop the sales of bump stocks, accessories that allow semiautomatic guns to mimic automatic fire, and that congressional action was needed to ban them. But Mr. Sessions said the department had worked around those concerns.“After the senseless attack in Las Vegas,” Mr. Sessions said, “this proposed rule is a critical step in our effort to reduce the threat of gun violence that is in keeping with the Constitution and the laws passed by Congress.”The 55-page proposal, which was published for public comment, said it was redefining machine guns to include bump stocks because “such devices allow a shooter of a semiautomatic firearm to initiate a continuous firing cycle with a single pull of the trigger.”The proposal would force bump stock owners to surrender or destroy them the day the rule would go into effect.A previous Justice Department review, done by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, was prompted by the mass shooting last fall in Las Vegas, where a gunman killed 58 people using semiautomatic weapons outfitted with bump stocks.By working around the A.T.F.’s earlier interpretation, the Justice Department essentially said that the statute had not changed, but that it could now be read in a different way.By reinterpreting the conclusion that was made under President Barack Obama, the Justice Department could open itself up to lawsuits when the rule is finalized. Litigation would tie up the bump stock ban in the courts.Legal experts say that groups that sue could win because bump stock makers specifically designed the devices so they could not qualify as machine guns under the law.“When you pull the trigger once on a machine gun, multiple bullets fire, whereas each pull of a trigger fires a single round with bump stocks,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “People designed it this way deliberately to keep bump stocks from being defined as machine guns under the statute. It’s like the difference between tax avoidance and tax evasion. The first is specifically to avoid being illegal.”The controversial new rule is in keeping with Mr. Sessions’s practice of closely hewing to White House political directives, sometimes remaining silent in the face of criticism from Mr. Trump and other times rebuking his own employees.Before the Justice Department issued any measures of its own, Mr. Trump had publicly declared that he would use executive authority to ban bump stocks, and he ordered the department to find a way to prohibit them.This month, the Justice Department announced an array of initiatives designed to address the issue of gun violence, sometimes echoing measures that had already been proposed by Mr. Trump.The department said it would help local law enforcement officials hire more school resource officers, help local firearms training programs work with teachers and help states provide faster, more accurate and complete information to databases used in federal firearms background checks. It also said it would provide a $1 million emergency grant to Florida to help cover law enforcement costs related to the Parkland shooting.Mr. Trump had said earlier that he supported the inclusion of mental health information in the background check system and the arming of teachers as part of an effort to deter school shootings.Mr. Sessions also ordered federal prosecutors to more aggressively prosecute gun buyers who lie on gun purchasing applications, a move that The New York Times reported last month.Each year, thousands of prospective gun owners who apply to buy guns through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System are found unqualified to purchase a firearm.It is a felony to lie on that application, but the crime is rarely prosecuted. From 2008 to 2015, prosecutors considered fewer than 32 cases a year, according to the Justice Department’s inspector general.“Under my tenure as attorney general, we have already increased federal gun prosecutions to a 10-year high — and we are just getting started,” Mr. Sessions said when he announced those measures.Those past directives acknowledged that gun violence is a problem, but they were unlikely to upset opponents of more restrictive gun policies. In the past, the National Rifle Association has supported some forms of bump-stock regulation, the enforcement of existing gun laws and some background check legislation.But the Justice Department’s latest move, which Mr. Sessions previewed in an announcement this month, will be met with more opposition.“You need Congress to pass a statute,” Mr. Blackman said. “That’s how you change a law, not through executive action.”
Good evening. Here’s the latest. More than 800 demonstrations against gun violence are planned on Saturday in the U.S. and around the world.The campaign, called the March for Our Lives, is being led by students and will include survivors of the Parkland, Fla., shooting and other attacks. This map shows where they will be held, and we’ll have live coverage starting Saturday morning. Above right, David Hogg, a student activist from Parkland, visited a school in Washington.Our video journalists profiled a 15-year-old who lost his brother to gun violence in Chicago. Now he’s getting ready to march in Washington.____2. President Trump backed down from a threat to veto a $1.3 trillion spending bill. But he called it “ridiculous” and criticized lawmakers for not funding a border wall or coming to agreement on DACA.And then, at the end of a head-spinning week in White House news, Mr. Trump headed down to Florida.____3. We collected reaction from around the world to the news that John Bolton, the hard-line former ambassador to the U.N., will become President Trump’s national security adviser. American allies in Europe and Asia are fearful of Mr. Bolton’s hawkish views on Iran and North Korea.And our investigative reporter wrote that a political action committee that Mr. Bolton founded was one of the earliest customers of Cambridge Analytica, the firm that came under fire for its use of data scraped from Facebook.____4. The White House announced plans to impose tariffs on $60 billion worth of Chinese imports this week. But China’s response has been muted.Our correspondents in Beijing explained why. They say that the tariffs would have minimal impact on China and that Beijing has more effective weapons it could use in a trade war. Above, a steel plant in Shandong Province.____5. A gunman in southwestern France killed three people in a burst of violence that included hijacking a car, shooting at police officers and opening fire and taking a hostage in a supermarket.Witnesses said the gunman claimed to be acting on behalf of the Islamic State, but it was unclear if he had any ties to the group. He was killed by the police when they stormed the supermarket.____6. A New York firefighter was killed and two others were seriously injured by a fire at a building in Harlem that was being used as a film set.Michael R. Davidson, 37, was a 15-year veteran of the department, with four commendations for bravery, and a father of four. He was somehow separated from other firefighters as the blaze intensified and forced them to pull back.The building, which was one of Harlem’s few remaining jazz clubs before it closed, was being used for the filming of “Motherless Brooklyn,” based on a book by Jonathan Lethem and directed by Edward Norton.____7. A woman who says she was sexually abused by a teacher at an upstate New York private school in the 1990s bought three billboards to call him out. She was inspired by the movie “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.”Kat Sullivan says she was abused by a teacher at the Emma Willard School. A report commissioned by the school concluded that the teacher was fired for sexual abuse — but was still given a recommendation to teach elsewhere.The statute of limitations has expired, leaving Ms. Sullivan with no legal recourse. So she bought the billboards, one of which pushes a bill that would give victims until age 28 to file criminal charges.____8. Uber’s self-driving cars were struggling even before one struck and killed a woman in Arizona. Above, investigators inspected the vehicle.Our account is based on more than 100 pages of Uber documents and interviews with two people familiar with the company’s operations in the Phoenix area.Tech companies and automakers are spending billions developing self-driving cars in the belief that the market for them could one day be worth much more. The crash, which occurred Sunday night, is a major setback for Uber.____9. Our critic weighed in on the adaptation of “Frozen” that opened on Broadway this week, and it wasn’t pretty. He called it “sometimes rousing, often dull, alternately dopey and anguished.” He liked the first 20 minutes, though. Above, Caissie Levy as Elsa.In happier theater news, come inside the Times Square studios where actors for Broadway’s biggest shows rehearse. Our video shows a day in the life of the bustling space.____10. Finally, did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. (Above, President Vladimir Putin of Russia, who was elected to a fourth term on Sunday.)Speaking of this week’s top stories, the late-night hosts had a good time imagining a throwdown between President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden after the two septuagenarians exchanged schoolyard taunts.“This is just what America needs,” Seth Meyers joked. “The thrilla in vanilla.”Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
A 16-year-old girl critically injured in a shooting at a Maryland high school this week died on Thursday night after she was taken off life support.The girl, Jaelynn Willey, was “surrounded by her family” when she died shortly before midnight, the St. Mary’s County Sheriff’s Office said. She had been at the University of Maryland Prince George’s Hospital Center since Tuesday, when another student shot her in the head in a hallway at their school in Great Mills, Md.Earlier on Thursday, her parents said that she was brain dead.“My daughter was hurt by a boy who shot her in the head and took everything from our lives,” her mother, Melissa Willey, said at a news conference at the hospital as she clutched her youngest child in her arms.Shortly before 8 a.m. on Tuesday, the police said, Austin Wyatt Rollins, 17, opened fire inside Great Mills High School with a handgun, striking Jaelynn and a 14-year-old boy. Jaelynn was shot in the head and collapsed in the hallway outside an art classroom, students said. The boy, Desmond Barnes, was shot in the thigh and was hospitalized. He has since been released.The authorities were still trying to determine whether Jaelynn and her killer had had a relationship. The sheriff had said Wednesday that they did, but on Friday the office seemed to walk back that assertion, saying merely “they were acquainted.”The shooting, which lasted about a minute, ended in a confrontation between the gunman and an armed school resource officer stationed at Great Mills High. The officer, Deputy Blaine Gaskill, responded almost immediately and fired his weapon at the gunman, who later died at a hospital. Deputy Gaskill was unharmed in the exchange.While it was not immediately clear if the officer struck Mr. Rollins, the deputy’s quick response brought renewed attention to the national debate over gun control and how to prevent mass school shootings after the killing of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School last month in Parkland, Fla. Some politicians, including President Trump, have advocated arming teachers and placing additional police officers in schools. Others have criticized the idea.Survivors of the Stoneman Douglas shooting have organized the March for Our Lives, a rally to end gun violence planned for Saturday.
The criminologist John DiIulio sparked panic in 1995 when he predicted there would be an explosion of juvenile superpredators in the coming years, resulting in widespread violence. His baseless theory was wrong; youth crime has fallen dramatically ever since.Mr. DiIulio has retracted some of his ideas, but the damage is done. The “superpredator myth” ushered in a wave of intensified policing and harsher sentences that fueled mass incarceration.Something similar is happening today.The way the police and prosecutors are trying to dismantle youth gangs — haphazardly putting teenager’s names into gang databases, issuing civil injunctions, levying broad conspiracy charges and increasing deportations — is also a misguided panic that is likely to have the same effect.This kind of law enforcement relies on the same logic that has driven much of the enormous increase in incarceration over the last 40 years. It wrongly assumes that deterrence and incapacitation are the only ways to change the behavior of young people and that any teenager who commits a crime is a hardened sociopath.California has pursued this punitive approach for many years and has little to show for it. For example, the Los Angeles Police Department’s Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums unit, tasked with combating gang-related crime, achieved a temporary drop in crime. But the unit disbanded in the late 1990s after officers were accused of widespread brutality, framing of suspects and stealing then reselling drugs. The city’s problem with gang violence persists.Los Angeles, Chicago and other major cities also use gang databases to subject young people to heightened surveillance, criminal penalties, deportation and inclusion in broad-reaching civil injunctions. These databases have come under scrutiny because a child may be included for arbitrary reasons, like wearing a certain color of clothing or hanging out in a particular park. Portland, Ore., eliminated its database last year after a local journalist pressed the Police Department for information about its contents and use. California also passed a law requiring that people be notified when they’re added to a database and giving them the right to petition to be removed from it.Similar concerns have been raised about the use of gang injunctions that criminalize people based on their alleged connection to a gang. The restrictions on association are often impossible to abide by, given their broad scope. In many cases, to avoid associating with “known gang members” means people can’t see certain relatives, walk to school with certain friends or visit local parks.The use of large-scale conspiracy cases is also problematic. A few years ago, the New York Police Department began Operation Crew Cut, which involves long-term investigations of people suspected of being gang members in high-violence areas. Working with prosecutors, the department has conducted dozens of high-profile raids in which more than 2,000 young people have been arrested on state and federal conspiracy charges.The Police Department believes that by targeting small groups of people responsible for much of the city’s gun violence, such raids have helped reduce the number of shootings over the past two years. Crime is down in targeted areas, but crime is also down across the city and the country. So it’s impossible to isolate the raids as the reasons for these declines.It’s also unclear whether the gains in New York will be durable. Gang-suppression efforts in other parts of the country rarely show long-term success, in part because teenagers in poor, racially segregated communities will continue to face the challenges of insecurity and hopelessness that drive youth violence.Through the New York Police Department’s use of conspiracy cases, these raids cover a wide range of behaviors that are not acts of violence, like marijuana possession. This approach misunderstands the nature of gangs and the dense social networks inhabited by these young people targeted for prosecution. Despite overheated rhetoric from the police, politicians and the media, there is often very little evidence in these conspiracy cases of an organized hierarchical structure to these alleged gangs, which instead are often loose affiliations without purpose beyond socializing and seeking mutual safety.Most of the raids in New York have been concentrated in and around public housing developments, where teenagers have little choice but to develop continuing relationships, even if those acquaintances are involved in violence. The police claim that because these young people spend time together in a park, were previously arrested together and are seen together in Facebook posts, they are in a well-defined gang engaged in ongoing crime and violence. But that is much too simplistic.Prosecutors rely heavily on these conspiracy charges, not because they involve true criminal enterprises but because they can be used as leverage against defendants. State conspiracy and federal RICO anti-racketeering statutes allow prosecutors to threaten decades of prison time based merely on evidence of associations and potentially unrelated low-level criminal charges from the past.The gang designation also usually makes defendants ineligible for bail, giving them a stronger incentive to provide evidence against others or take a plea deal. In many cases, the only evidence against a defendant accused of violence is the testimony of someone in jail hoping to avoid prosecution. Many young people have complained to their public defenders that during questioning, the police have pressured them to hand over social media passwords, even when they have not been charged with a crime and in the absence of a parent or legal representative.Many of the defendants in the New York City cases are jailed before trial for long periods of time and face possibly decades in prison, even though a vast majority of them are not being accused of actual involvement in violence. That leaves their families to choose either getting evicted from public housing or agreeing that their child will be banned from their home forever. Communities are undermined as young people are forced to testify against their neighbors to avoid prosecution.Instead of doubling down on gang-suppression policing, New York City should invest in better alternatives. The city supports 18 Cure Violence programs to reduce shootings. The program’s sites, often a substantial portion of the area’s police precinct, rely on community-based “violence interrupters” who work with young people. New York also promulgates anti-violence public health messaging and involves young people in social activities like art programs and service projects.The John Jay College of Criminal Justice reported last fall that neighborhoods with Cure Violence sites had significant crime reductions compared with similar control areas without them. In the East New York site run by Man Up, gun injury rates fell by 50 percent over four years; the control site in East Flatbush fell by only 5 percent. Similarly, shootings were down by 63 percent in the Save Our Streets South Bronx area, but only 17 percent in the East Harlem control neighborhood.When community-based alternatives are well funded and well operated, they can make a real difference in reducing gun violence. Though no one program will solve all of our violence problems, it’s time to dial back the criminalization approach and give communities the resources they need to create lasting public safety.
When I was 12 years old I went to five funerals in one week. My classmates and I sat clutching one another on crowded church pews listening to Celine Dion’s “My Heart Will Go On,” wearing thick white ribbons on our chests like scarlet A’s. We were thrust into a small and terrible “survivors club.”The Westside Middle School shooting is often forgotten, not because it happened 20 years ago, but because it happened so many shootings ago. Before terms like “mass shooting” and “active shooter” entered our common vernacular, one of my classmates stole into our rural middle school in Jonesboro, Ark., right after lunch. He pulled the fire alarm, sending the rest of us out onto the playground, where he and another heavily armed classmate fired on us from the nearby woods. My best friend, Paige Herring, was killed that day along with three other girls and our beloved sixth-grade English teacher. Ten other people were injured.I’ve had a lot of practice over the years trying to tell that story as quickly as possible, to jog people’s memories with the buzzwords. Not many people outside of our little community remember Westside. “Which shooting was yours?” people ask.The shooting at Westside was 13 months before Columbine. At the time, it was an anomaly and seemed to jolt the entire country. America mourned with us — buckets of flowers, handmade cards and books on grief poured in, making us feel less alone.The ritual is now familiar, and I see it in the outpouring of support for the students from Parkland, Fla., where 17 people were killed last month. The list of the unthinkable — kids shot at school — has gotten so much longer since 1998. Every time another shooting occurs, I enter a near-catatonic state. It’s almost impossible to talk about with anyone who hasn’t experienced one, though. How do you bring that up on a third date after the shooting at Pulse or with your cubicle mate after the massacre at Newtown?There’s one group who understands all of this: my classmates from the playground, my fellow survivors. We call ourselves the Westside Warriors. It’s with them, on our class Facebook page, that I feel least alone when new tragedies occur and where I can visit Paige in vivid color just as she was. I imagine that most alumni pages are saved for hilarious pictures of bad hair and weird jeans or used to swap stories about how crazy 10th-grade homecoming was. We don’t share stories like that. We share pictures of the classmates we lost. We talk about how hard it is to turn off the TV after the newest deadly event. We communicate to keep the memorial garden, our old school playground, manicured. We collect condolence gifts to send to the newest victims as if we’re the ambassadors of grief. It’s what was done for us. Most important, the Facebook page is our refuge every March.This March 24 will mark the 20th anniversary of the shooting at Westside Middle School. It’s also the chosen date of the March for Our Lives rally, part of the movement led by students to do something about gun violence.I had already been dreading this March. Not only was I to mourn the 20th anniversary of our shooting, but also the Las Vegas shooting, from last fall, and Sutherland Springs, Tex., immediately following, in November — the sadness of each shooting attached itself to my own. The Facebook page had been steadfast, though, there for anniversaries, other shootings or just the down days, and we members help each other get through. I imagined on the 20th anniversary that we would come together and indulge in our grief as always. We would post and text and email and call, carrying the torch for our sweet, sad, little day.Then 17 people were killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.So, this March 24 — 20 years after the shooting on our playground — will no longer be about just us. My immediate reaction to hearing about the March for Our Lives was anger and indignation, because now Paige’s memory would be one mixed in with so many.I called a friend from the playground, and we talked it through and agreed to march. And it felt good to have something to do on that terrible day, a day when it’s normally hard to even get out of bed. We now had a plan. We would be together in Washington, standing on our grown-up feet and remembering Westside while walking for everyone who’s experienced this. And I thought the Warriors would agree; I thought that would be the clear consensus.That’s why my breath was taken away by a post to the Facebook group that denounced the march entirely. Some members were upset that the day was being taken from us, but many were even more upset about the agenda of the event. They thought it was purposely planned to drive a political point home, one that they did not agree with.People posted that the organizers were “against all guns,” that they chose “our day of remembrance” for their political agenda. People talked about arming teachers, increasing security, running “lockdown drills.”I understand that some people make an argument for preparedness over prevention, but it is an argument that I can’t accept. If my classmates think back to 1998, I imagine they’ll remember our teachers were white as sheets and frozen with fear. I personally had to shove a grown woman aside in order to dial 911 because she was in understandable shock. One teacher was able to pull a student to cover and safety, but that was the most she could do. She couldn’t have fought off our attackers and I don’t think it would have been right to ask her to. No person knows how he or she would react in a time like that, so the idea of arming teachers lends itself to a false sense of security.Beyond my lack of confidence in the practicality of arming teachers as a solution, the discussion made me incredibly sad. It meant we accept this as our new norm. Westside was the beginning of an epidemic. It was jarring to find a group of survivors — my former classmates — as divided as our country. It felt like they were responding with jaded, grown-up brains instead of the honest, childhood hearts we had when we were younger.I cannot accept that more guns will solve the issue of more shootings. Some of my classmates wrote that they “don’t want to be lumped into the gun debate,” but you cannot talk about a shooting without talking about guns.They send journals to the newest survivors, encouraging them to write their feelings and begin their healing. But this is a generation that has grown up with many platforms to voice their opinions, and they’re not satisfied with hiding their thoughts in a journal tucked away on a shelf. Standing up, speaking out and marching may be part of their therapy. One of the comments to our Facebook thread read: “It’s just all different than ours was. These people have a serious agenda: to get rid of guns.” That’s true. It is different than ours. These victims are helping themselves by fighting for common-sense gun laws to save the future.Each March 24 is harder for me than the last because, as an adult, I’m able to better define how horrific the shooting really was. In less than 10 minutes on that playground, my classmates and I gained a deeper understanding of evil and fear than most people experience in their entire lives. I can’t trade the Warriors for a group that agrees with me, but I can march this weekend in Washington to ensure that in 20 years Emma González won’t be writing to remind you of her story and her friends. She’ll be writing to commemorate the day we stood up and said never again.
Good morning.Here’s what you need to know: If President Trump wanted a national security adviser who matched his blunt, confrontational approach to the world, he found him. Meet John Bolton.Mr. Trump dumped Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster on Thursday in favor of Mr. Bolton, who has called for military action against North Korea and has said the Iran nuclear deal is a “massive strategic blunder.” He doesn’t like the U.N., either.The shake-up creates one of the most hawkish national security teams of any White House in years.• Separately, John Dowd resigned on Thursday as Mr. Trump’s lead lawyer for the special counsel investigation. The two men disagreed over the president’s desire to be questioned by investigators.• Beijing announced today that it would impose tariffs on $3 billion worth of American-produced goods, hours after President Trump imposed tariffs on as much as $60 billion worth of Chinese goods.The prospect of a trade war sent U.S. stocks  lower on Thursday, but they  rose slightly in early trading this morning. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.• The Trump administration’s stiff tariffs on steel and aluminum begin today, but it granted brief exemptions to some allies and said it might impose import quotas.• The Senate passed a $1.3 trillion spending bill early this morning that would keep the federal government open through September. Funding was scheduled to expire tonight.The measure provides big increases to military and domestic programs and rebuffs the Trump administration’s efforts to sharply scale back the scope of government. Here’s a breakdown of what’s in the deal.• President Trump may veto the bill, he said on Twitter today.• A gunman killed three people in southwestern France today in a burst of violence that included hijacking a car, shooting at police officers, and opening fire and taking a hostage in a supermarket — an attack that rattled nerves in a country that has been hit hard by terrorism in recent years.The assailant, who claimed to be acting on behalf of the Islamic State, was killed by the police in Trèbes, about 50 miles southeast of Toulouse.• The interior minister identified him as Redouane Lakdim, 26, known to the police as a petty criminal and drug dealer.• More than 800 student-led demonstrations are planned this weekend to call for an end to gun violence. Here’s a map of scheduled protests across the U.S. and around the world.Whether the young activists inspired by March for Our Lives will become a disruptive force depends in large part on whether they stay organized and register to vote.• Separately, the 16-year-old girl who was shot at a school in Maryland on Tuesday will be removed from life support, her parents said.• The much-awaited antitrust trial involving AT&T’s proposed merger with Time Warner began on Thursday with starkly different visions of a future media landscape.• Citigroup is setting restrictions on the sale of firearms by its business customers. It’s the first Wall Street bank to take a stance on gun control.• Martin Shkreli went to prison for fraud, and so far Elizabeth Holmes of Theranos has not. Our business columnist asks if that’s fair.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• We have answers to questions about preparing a “green funeral.”• Movie-themed vacations are surprisingly easy to plan.• Recipe of the day: End the week with the perfect snack, chips and creamy queso.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:• “After Alabama decided this week to become the third state to legalize execution by nitrogen gas, I pulled up this astonishing and comprehensive article, which lays out various execution methods that some states can use.” [The Marshall Project]“And I listened again to the inaugural episode of one of my favorite podcasts. The riveting episode “Cruel and Unusual” examines nitrogen gas’s antecedent, the lethal injection, and makes a case, of sorts, for the integrity of the firing squad.” [Radiolab’s “More Perfect”]— Jan Hoffman, health and behavior reporter• “A group of freelance theater critics, all once affiliated with print publications, banded together to publish online reviews of Broadway and Off Broadway shows.” [New York Stage Review]— Michael Paulson, theater reporter• The last days of the Las Vegas gunmanUsing surveillance footage, we pieced together the final week in the life of Stephen Paddock, who killed 58 people in October. He plays video poker, laughs with hotel employees and hauls bag after bag of weapons to his suite.• The Biggest AppleNew York City’s population reached a record high of over 8.6 million last year, according to census data.• Quiz time!Did you keep up with this week’s news? Test yourself.• Top of the chartsTwo of this week’s best-seller lists have debuts at No. 1: Clive Cussler and Graham Brown’s thriller “The Rising Sea” in hardcover fiction, and Michael Isikoff and David Corn’s look at the 2016 presidential election, “Russian Roulette,” in hardcover nonfiction.And “A Brief History of Time” returns to our paperback nonfiction list in the top spot. Its author, Stephen Hawking, died last week.• Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critics liked “Isle of Dogs,” directed by Wes Anderson, and “Pacific Rim Uprising,” starring John Boyega.We recommend 10 new books, and TV offerings based on your available viewing time.If you’re in New York City, here are 14 pop, rock and jazz concerts to check out, 23 art exhibitions and seven things to do with kids.And “Frozen” has arrived on Broadway. The stage musical adaptation of the animated blockbuster is beautiful, our theater critic writes, but a bit confusing.• Best of late-night TVTrevor Noah addressed this week’s war of words between President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden: “Personally I have no idea who would win this fight. I mean, Biden seems scrappy, but if 70 years of McDonald’s couldn’t take Trump down, I don’t know what can.”• Quotation of the day“People in the U.S. and China have for years said the wolf is coming, the wolf is coming, but the wolf hasn’t come. This time, the wolf is coming.” leaders have been slow to realize the gravity of a brewing trade battle.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.It’s a shortcut used the world over — and even beyond, having been uttered at least once during a space mission.On this day in 1839, The Boston Morning Post published “O.K.” for the first known time, using the abbreviation next to the words “all correct.” (It’s not written “okay,” The Times stylebook says.)There have been many theories about its origin, but the most likely is that O.K. was an abbreviation for the deliberately misspelled “orl korrect” (all correct), and the expression gained prominence in the mid-19th century.Allen Walker Read, a longtime English professor at Columbia University, debunked some theories in the 1960s, including that the term had come from Andrew Jackson’s poor spelling, from a Native American word or from an Army biscuit.Today, O.K. is “an Americanism adopted by virtually every language, and one of the first words spoken on the moon,” the Times obituary of Mr. Read noted in 2002.The professor didn’t “appreciate having ‘O.K.’ overshadow the hundreds of other etymologies he divined,” it continued. He also tracked early uses of Dixie, Podunk and the “almighty dollar.”In the 1920s, Mr. Read hitchhiked through western Iowa hunting down the word “blizzard.”“A man called Lightnin’ Ellis had first used the word for a snowstorm in 1870,” he learned. “Within 10 years, it had spread throughout the Midwest.”Charles McDermid contributed reporting._____What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
Updated, 7:56 a.m.Good morning on this drippy Friday.Now that almost everyone is easily reachable at all hours, it’s normal to tap out emails long after dinner or read Slack messages while brushing your teeth. Try as you may, once that phone buzzes, it’s nearly impossible to shake the pressure to respond.But if a bill introduced this week in the City Council passes, New Yorkers could freely pull the plug on off-the-clock communications.Under the proposed “right-to-disconnect” bill, private companies with more than 10 employees would be banned from requiring their workers to respond to electronic work communications (email, text and others) after work hours.Businesses would be fined at least $250 for each instance of noncompliance.“So many of us are glued to our smartphones and our computers, it’s important to understand that we don’t have to feel as if our work has to spill into our personal lives,” said Councilman Rafael Espinal, the sponsor of the bill.The bill doesn’t forbid employers from contacting workers after they clock out, said Mr. Espinal, who modeled the legislation after similar laws in Europe. “It says that you, as an employee, should have the right to not answer that call or that email, without fear of retaliation.”The average New Yorker already works 49 hours and 8 minutes a week, longer than their counterparts in the next 29 largest cities in the U.S., according to a 2015 report by the city comptroller. And that’s not including hours spent emailing at home. A 2017 study found that, on average, workers spend an extra eight hours a week sending email after work.Research has also shown that people who responded to work communications after 9 p.m. had a worse quality of sleep and were less engaged the next day.“When you don’t have recovery and time off, it leads to more stress and ultimately burnout and exhaustion,” said Larissa K. Barber, a professor of psychology at Northern Illinois University who conducts research on work-life balance and coined a term for the urge to respond: “telepressure.”But now that round-the-clock communications are ingrained in the way we work, some businesses might view cutting out these communications as shortening the workday, and hurting their bottom line, said Sonia Marciano, a professor of management and organizations at New York University’s Stern School of Business.The best solution to fatigue from after-work work, she said, was an honest conversation about expectations between employer and employee. Unfortunately, she said, “those conversations rarely happen.”What are your thoughts on responding to electronic communications after hours? Should we have a law in New York that prevents companies from retaliating against employees who unplug after work? Let us know what you think in the comments.Here’s what else is happening:We wish we could tell you to power down your phones and frolic outdoors all weekend, but the next few days are looking iffy.Today’s high is 46, and it could rain this afternoon (and again Saturday night).The rest of the weekend looks fair: partly sunny, with highs in the low 40s.• A Long Island restaurant owner testified that he had steered tens of thousands of dollars toward the mayor’s campaign in exchange for favorable treatment by the city. [New York Times]• Airport workers are on their way to securing one of the highest minimum wages in the country. [New York Times]• New Yorkers, unite. The city’s population has reached a record high of more than 8.6 million people. [New York Times]• The snow fell short of expectations in the city, but some parts of Long Island counted over 20 inches. [New York Times]• A firefighter was killed battling a fire that broke out on a movie set in Harlem. [CBS]• For the police officers habitually lying in court, our reporter has a few suggestions. [New York Times]• Why would Republican leaders be giddy that Cynthia Nixon is running for governor? Because it may leave the Democratic incumbent vulnerable. [New York Times]• For the City Council’s latest power play against Mayor Bill de Blasio, they want to put your money where their mouth is. [New York Times]• Robert Rubin, the banker who defended the Brooklyn Museum’s Virgin Mary-covered-in-elephant-dung exhibit against Rudolph W. Giuliani, then the mayor, has died at 86. [New York Times]• This nature-based exhibit in Chelsea hopes to help people cut the cord, at least temporarily. [New York Times]• Staten Island is where the city’s big dogs roam. [New York Times]• The Lees opened their Korean food stand in Sunset Park to fulfill their daughter’s culinary homesickness. [New York Times]• Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo threatened not to sign the state budget if no plans are made to fix public housing. [am New York]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Tapping Apples”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Dance for as long as you can at a Dance-A-Thon at J. Hood Wright Park in Washington Heights. 4 p.m. [Free]• Daryl Hannah and Neil Young host a screening of their new Netflix film, “Paradox,” at the IFC Center in Greenwich Village. 7 p.m. [$15]• A group of German-language authors are interviewed by university students as part of the Festival Neue Literatur, at the Goethe-Institut New York in Gramercy Park. 7 p.m. Though Sunday [Free]• An evening of classical music performed by the Queens Symphony Orchestra at Flushing Town Hall. 7:30 p.m. [Free]• Femcom, the woman and queer-focused comic convention, kicks off at the Silent Barn in Bushwick, Brooklyn. 8 p.m. Also Saturday. [$10]• Devils at Penguins, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Devils host Lightning, 7 p.m. (MS+2). Knicks host Timberwolves, 7:30 p.m. (MSG). Nets at Raptors, 7:30 p.m. (YES).• Watch “The New York Times Close Up,” featuring David Cay Johnston, a former Times reporter, and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV.• Alternate-side parking is suspended for snow removal.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday • Luna Park at Coney Island, Brooklyn opens for the season. 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. [Free]• The March for Our Lives, to end gun violence and mass shootings in schools, kicks off at West 72nd Street and Central Park West at noon. [Free]• Introduce your kids to Broadway with performances and a question-and-answer session with actors at “Broadway Kids,” at the Queens Theater in Flushing Meadow-Corona Park. 3 p.m. Also Sunday. [$20]• The film festival of Dan Savage, the author and activist, “Hump!” featuring sex-positive films at Cinema Village in Greenwich Village. 10:30 p.m. Though Thursday. [$25]• New York City F.C. at New England Revolution, 1:30 p.m. (YES). Rangers host Sabres, 7 p.m. (MSG). Islanders host Blackhawks, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Red Bulls host Minnesota United, 7 p.m. (MSG2).Sunday • Sunday is the 107th anniversary of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire. The opera, “Morning Star,” tells the story of a family affected by the tragedy at the Museum at Eldridge Street in Lower Manhattan. 1 and 6 p.m. [$60]• A performance of “Giselle” by the Moscow Festival Ballet at the Queensborough Performing Arts Center in Bayside, Queens. 3 p.m. [$42]• A day of free guitar lessons, and a concert, at Guitar Fest at the 92nd Street Y on the Upper East Side. Noon to 5 p.m. [Free] (Not Saturday, as we mentioned earlier.)• Celebrate Nowruz, the Persian New Year, at the New York Persian Cultural Center in Lower Manhattan. 7 p.m. [$65]• A rotating cast of comedians perform at Asssscat 3000 at the Upright Citizens Brigade in Hell’s Kitchen. 7:30 p.m. [$12] and 9 p.m. [Free, but line forms early]• Nets host Cavaliers, 1 p.m. (YES). Knicks at Wizards, 6 p.m. (MSG).• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.We recently asked our readers for their thoughts on after-hours emailing, and how they manage it. Here’s what they said.“I live in a multilevel private house. When I go up to my bedroom in the evening, I leave the cellphone on the charger downstairs in the kitchen. That way, I am less tempted to respond to emails or calls from my consulting clients or graduate students after the dinner hour. Of course, occasionally I take the laptop with me, which defeats the purpose.”— Melba Butler, 63, Jamaica, Queens“Being a freelancer means I don’t really have off-hours. As soon as a work-related email, text, or phone call comes in, the response clock stars ticking down. Unless I’m asleep, teaching, or playing a gig, I respond immediately.”— Jono Waldman, 36, East Harlem“I ‘Boomerang’ my work email as soon as I finish for the day or week, with a message to text only if something is urgent. Any emails sent after this time return to my inbox first thing on the next business day.”— Carolyn Robinson, Wooster, Ohio“A few years ago I was disgusted with myself because I’d become an addicted smartphone drone. I took the radical step of canceling my phone service and rejecting permanent connectivity. I got a computer phone number so I could get texts make calls when at a Wi-Fi hot spot, and told people to leave me a message and I’d get back to them. Business associates envied my resolve but didn’t feel it would work. It has. I am a liberated person now, free at last, free at last.”— Arthur Kaye, 67, Chappaqua, N.Y.“I’m on the clock 24/7 … but I choose to be. I didn’t move to New York to sit around and watch TV all day!”— Nick El-Tawil, 27, West Village
MEMPHIS, Tenn. —  Despite advances the country has made since the Rev. Martin Luther King. Jr. was slain while fighting poverty and racism, "the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us," former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday.The remark was one of two thinly veiled references to President Donald Trump that Holder made during his appearance at a symposium on the first of three days of events commemorating the 50th anniversary of King's assassination.King was supporting striking sanitation workers when he came to Memphis in 1968. He was talking with friends on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel on April 4 when he was struck by a rifle bullet and killed.Museums, colleges and activists have organized three days of marches, speeches and conferences to remember King and his legacy. His daughter, Bernice King, and Holder toured a new King-centered photo exhibit at the National Civil Rights Museum later Monday.  She and her brother, Martin Luther King III, are scheduled to speak Tuesday at the Mason Temple."This is a very emotional time for me and my family," she said.Holder, the first black U.S. attorney general, spoke at a symposium sponsored by the University of Memphis and the museum. He was introduced by U.S. Sen. Doug Jones, an Alabama Democrat who won a special election in December.Holder said he is proud that the nation has made progress in the past 50 years achieving racial, social and economic justice. He said women, minorities, students against gun violence and members of the LGBTQ community have been inspired by King's nonviolent protests and have launched movements calling for "fairness, opportunity and justice."But in remarks that appeared to reference Trump without mentioning his name, Holder also noted that King's dream of equality for all has not been reached."We're still marching, we are still striving, and we're still calling on our nation's leaders to act with a sense of justice, compassion and common humanity," Holder said. "The unfortunate fact is that in 2018, America's long struggle to overcome injustice, to eliminate disparities and eradicate violence has not yet ended, and the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us."Holder said he has spoken with young people who feel lost in their own country and are "fearful that America's too-long-standing divisions are threatening to tear our nation apart."Holder said he is concerned with gun violence, the disproportional incarceration of young black men, and uneven educational opportunities for minorities. King's legacy includes the lesson that "it is necessary to be indignant, and to be impatient, so that it impels us to take action," Holder said.Holder said the "chief civil rights issue of our time" is ensuring minorities have equal voting rights."In many communities, our political system is far from fair," said Holder, who chairs the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, a group that is pushing back against gerrymandered political districts nationwide. "It's been undermined by spurious and outright false claims of widespread voter fraud and by acts of voter suppression."Holder asked the crowd of hundreds to do more to help realize King's dream of racial and social equality and come together to "heal this divided nation.""As easy as it is, we must not look back to a past that was comforting to too few, and unjust to too many," Holder said.Then, in a reference to Trump's campaign slogan, he added: "That is not how we make America great."
NASHVILLE — I didn’t attend the local rally against gun violence on March 24, though more than 10,000 Nashvillians did. The march was planned by Abby Brafman, a Vanderbilt University freshman and 2017 graduate of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. I had out-of-town family visiting, so my husband, a high school English teacher, marched alone. A few minutes after he got to the rally, he texted me a photo he’d taken of himself standing in front of another marcher’s sign. It read, “Am I next?” For just a second, I couldn’t breathe.I had a similar reaction last summer when our oldest son, a new middle school math teacher, took me to see his first classroom. “Just look at all these beautiful windows!” I said. “Not exactly great for an active-shooter situation,” he pointed out. His words turned my heart to ice.Not only am I married to a schoolteacher, and the mother of one, I also have two younger sons in college. Not a single day goes by when I don’t worry about whether they will all be safe in their classrooms.Every parent in this country knows we’re taking a calculated risk when we send our children to school, to a concert, to a movie. The canned statement that used to make us roll our eyes at public events — “Please take a moment to familiarize yourself with the location of the exits in the unlikely event of an emergency” — has become our unconscious habit because such emergencies are no longer so unthinkable: Americans are now more likely to be shot to death than to die in a car accident.Everyone is worried about the threat of gun violence, and almost everyone has a clear idea of what to do about it, too. A new Fox News poll — Fox News! — showed strong bipartisan support for at least some forms of gun control: 91 percent of Americans support criminal background checks, 84 percent support mandatory mental health checks, and 60 percent called for an outright ban on assault rifles and semiautomatic weapons. “By a 13-point margin [53 percent to 40 percent], voters consider protecting against gun violence more important than protecting gun rights,” Fox reported.Here in the American South, however, plenty of people still ardently believe our trouble isn’t guns. Americans have “a heart problem,” not a gun problem, the House majority leader of the Tennessee General Assembly said last month.This is an easy conclusion to come to if you’ve grown up in a culture where guns are ubiquitous. My grandfather, a farmer, kept his shotgun hanging on hooks over the coat rack because it was not uncommon for him to need it. My father, a salesman who often had appointments in crime-ridden neighborhoods, carried a handgun on nighttime calls and taught me to shoot it when I was 14. It never crossed their minds that I or anyone else might pick up one of those guns without a very good reason.For my father and my grandfather, a gun was a tool. It was not a toy. They would not have been able to conceive of a world in which civilians could purchase weapons of war, a culture in which gun-entranced suburbanites could host birthday parties where children fire off AR-15s for fun at a homemade range on someone’s family farm.I will never understand this kind of thinking, but that doesn’t mean I don’t understand why a person in certain circumstances might need a gun. In 1982, my grandmother was sitting in a rocking chair just inside the door of a tiny grocery store in rural Alabama when a stranger walked in with a rifle and pointed it at the store owner’s head. My grandmother cried out a warning, and the man turned and shot her instead. While the intruder was busy firing five bullets into my 72-year-old grandmother’s chest and abdomen, the store owner retrieved his own handgun from beneath the counter and killed him. My grandmother was shot by a bad guy with a gun. She lived another 24 years because of the proverbial good guy with a gun.There is no need for polarities here. Most people who don’t own guns understand that some people might truly need to own a gun. Most people who do own guns understand the need to keep other people safe. But our legislators, in thrall to the National Rifle Association, do almost nothing to keep guns away from people who shouldn’t have them, or to keep the most dangerous weapons — those meant to inflict the greatest damage to the most people in the least amount of time — out of the hands of civilians.Tennessee has some of the most permissive gun laws in the country. You don’t need a permit to buy a gun here. You don’t need a license to own one. You aren’t required to register any gun you own. You don’t need a permit to carry a rifle or a shotgun. You aren’t required to pass a background check if you’re buying a gun from a private person. It’s easier to purchase an AR-15 in Tennessee than it is to become a licensed exotic dancer, as two employees of Déjà Vu Showgirls, a Nashville strip club, demonstrated in a recent YouTube video.Tennessee students are caught bringing a gun to school at twice the rate of the national average. The Tennessee General Assembly’s response to this unwelcome trend is to propose arming teachers. If passed, the bill, directed at campuses without a school resource officer, would allow a percentage of teachers to carry a concealed weapon. More than half the members of the Tennessee House of Representatives have co-signed the bill, though it is opposed by state education officials, the teachers’ union, the Tennessee Sheriffs’ Association and Gov. Bill Haslam, a Republican.It’s never a good bet to look for sane behavior from the Tennessee General Assembly, but the opposition to this bill gives me hope. I don’t want my husband to work in a school where teachers are armed. I don’t want my son to work in a school where teachers are armed. All I want is for this state — and this country — to keep anyone else from going to school armed.Judging from the Fox News poll results, this is an opinion nearly all of us share. How remarkable it is, at a time when Americans don’t agree on very much at all, for the response to a terrible problem to be so straightforward and so clear. We don’t need to repeal the Second Amendment. We just need to do everything we can to keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have them.
