CHICAGO —  Chicago police say shootings that left one man dead and 18 other people wounded during the past weekend did not all happen during the March for Our Lives protest against gun violence.Police spokeswoman Jessica Rocco says the reported shootings took place across the city between last Friday and Sunday.Several online sites incorrectly claimed in headlines that the shootings all happened during the Saturday protests that were held nationwide.In the single death, 23-year-old La'Dell Barnett was found with a gunshot wound to his head in Chicago's Back of the Yards neighborhood.The previous weekend, seven people were killed and 13 were wounded in Chicago shootings.Rocco says Chicago had seen 106 homicides this year through Sunday, compared to 128 homicides for the same period in 2017.
Eric H. Holder Jr., the United States attorney general for six years under President Barack Obama, stepped away from public service in 2015 but has since emerged as a bulwark against the Trump administration, taking a leading role in challenging the president’s policies in court and trying to chip away at the Republicans’ grip on state governments. Mr. Holder discussed his efforts to fight Republican gerrymandering, whether Facebook should be regulated and the potential legacy of Mr. Trump’s presidency in a wide-ranging TimesTalks conversation with the reporter Alexander Burns on Wednesday night in New York.Here are the takeaways.After the Trump administration announced this week that it would add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census, Mr. Holder said he planned to sue to block the change on behalf of the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, which he chairs. The census aims to count everyone who resides in the country, whether they are citizens or not, and Mr. Holder echoed the concerns expressed by several states this week that the citizenship question could reduce the responses from noncitizens and even legal immigrants.He said his lawsuit would be aided by Mr. Trump’s Twitter utterances.“This is one of those incidences where I think the president’s tweets and public statements will become relevant,” Mr. Holder, 67, said. “To show the true intent — that it is not as benign as they would make it out to be. Through the words of Donald Trump and through the tweets of Donald Trump, you’ll see what the true intention was of the administration.”Normally, he noted, it would be difficult to argue in court that the government pushed a policy with a malicious intent. But Mr. Trump’s tweets provide plenty of material for lawsuits, Mr. Holder said.“It is certainly the gift that keeps on giving,” he said.Mr. Holder conceded that he prefers Twitter to Facebook but occasionally catches a glimpse of Facebook when his wife signs on. But he said he had been following the recent news that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users.That security breach, along with the social network’s role in spreading Russian-backed propaganda during the presidential election, bolstered an argument for regulating Facebook, Mr. Holder said.“There needs to be a certain degree of freedom,” he said. “We don’t want to stifle the creativity that comes from those platforms.”But he added: “There is a way in which we have to think of these platforms as communication companies. What then does that mean in terms of how they should be regulated?”Mr. Holder, who served as the attorney general from February 2009 to April 2015, said he was stunned by the support Mr. Trump still enjoyed in some circles after a pornographic-film star and a former Playboy model claimed they had sexual relationships with him.“I find it hard to believe the conversations that we have about the conduct of this president. They are mind-blowing,” he said. “I think to myself, You gave my guy grief because he wore a tan suit.”Mr. Holder said that if the same allegations of extramarital affairs had been made against Mr. Obama or President George W. Bush, their presidencies would have been over. “I just don’t understand how this has not had the reaction generated that would have been generated by any other president,” he said.Mr. Trump has nominated Mike Pompeo, the director of the C.I.A., to be the next secretary of state and named a veteran of the spy agency, Gina Haspel, as the next director. Both nominations require Senate confirmation, and Ms. Haspel will certainly face questions about her work as a clandestine officer in the agency’s counterterrorism operations. She oversaw a secret prison in Thailand involved in the rendition, detention and interrogation of detainees.In 2012, Mr. Holder effectively closed that dark chapter in the C.I.A.’s history, announcing that a three-year Justice Department investigation into brutal interrogations was ending without a prosecution. The decision outraged some liberals.On Wednesday night, Mr. Holder said that Ms. Haspel would have to answer tough questions — and that the public deserved to know more about the country’s enhanced interrogation program. He said that parts of the Justice Department report and a separate Senate investigation into the program should be declassified.“The American people need to know exactly what happened during that time period,” he said.Responding to recent calls for a repeal of the Second Amendment, Mr. Holder said such an effort was impracticable but offered four suggestions to address what he called a “gun violence epidemic in the United States.” His remarks came days after John Paul Stevens, a retired associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, wrote an Op-Ed in The Times advocating repeal.Assault weapons should be banned, as well as higher-capacity magazines, Mr. Holder said. Background checks should be expanded for prospective gun buyers, and the government should reinstate the funding of studies on gun violence by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.“Compare us to any other nation, and we are just off the charts when it comes to mass shootings and the number of people killed through the use of firearms,” Mr. Holder said. “We have to do something about it.”
HARTFORD, Conn. —  Connecticut U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty issued an apology Thursday for failing to protect female employees who say they were harassed by her former chief of staff, including one woman who said she was punched in the back and received death threats.The three-term Democratic congresswoman on Thursday also personally repaid the federal government $5,000 in severance issued to now-fired Tony Baker, according to her current chief of staff, Timothy Daly.Esty issued a public statement responding to a Hearst Connecticut Media article saying she was "horrified and angry" to learn in 2016 that a former employee had been harassed and physically harmed, allegedly by Baker. She said she demanded Baker receive counseling. She then conducted an internal review of her office practices, later learning "the threat of violence was not an isolated incident" but a pattern of behavior by Baker affecting many of her female staffers.Baker was Esty's chief of staff from 2014 to 2016. His spokesman denied many of the allegations."To this survivor, and to anyone else on my team who was hurt by my failure to see what was going on in my office, I am so sorry," Esty wrote. "I've asked myself over and over again, 'How did I not see this? How could I have let down so many people?'"Esty, known in Congress for advocating women's rights issues, said she has since hired new senior staff and instituted mandatory harassment training.Daly said Esty was advised by the Office of House Employment Counsel to enter into a nondisclosure agreement with Baker as part of a settlement agreement, which included him being paid his unpaid leave and about $5,000 in severance.Hearst Connecticut Media reported Esty also recommended Baker for a job at Sandy Hook Promise, a nonprofit gun violence prevention organization that was started after the deadly 2012 mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, which is part of Esty's congressional district.Daly said the nondisclosure agreement was "a recommendation that was provided to the congresswoman as part of a means to get Tony out of the office as soon as possible." He said the congresswoman was speaking about the situation now because she believes the agreement is "moot" given the media coverage, as well as her decision that "it's time and appropriate to be transparent."Hearst reported that Baker stopped working as Sandy Hook Promise's state director in Ohio as of Monday. A spokeswoman for Sandy Hook Promise confirmed he is not employed by the organization.Andrew Ricci, a friend and spokesman for Baker, told Hearst that Baker lives in Columbus, Ohio. A phone number listed for a Tony Baker was disconnected.Ricci also told Hearst that Baker denied punching the former female staffer in the back at Esty's Washington, D.C. office. Hearst cited an affidavit from the woman, which became the basis for a temporary protection order and later a year-long civil protection order, that Baker had called her cell phone about 50 times and left messages say he would track her down and kill her.The affidavit also said he screamed at her and said he'd prevent her from getting another job if she reported him to House ethics officials.Ricci said Baker has "spent a lot of time over the past two years becoming a stronger person." He added, "I know he's been living a sober life, and I can tell you anger management was really helpful."
MIAMI — Starting in the fall of 2017, David Hogg, a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School senior, applied to a half-dozen universities that offered programs in journalism, political science or photography. His plan was to become a journalist or filmmaker.Less than six months later, the Parkland, Fla., teenager had tragically become one of the best-known high school students in America. After 17 of his fellow students and teachers were killed in a Feb. 14 mass shooting, Mr. Hogg became a leader in the grass-roots, student-led gun control movement that spread around the country, pushing a campaign to hold lawmakers accountable for their votes on gun legislation.The day after the shooting, Mr. Hogg got his first college application letter back: a rejection from California State University at Long Beach. At least two more denials followed, along with acceptances to three universities. Now Mr. Hogg, whose name and face are surely recognizable to college admissions officers everywhere, has no idea where or if he is going to college in the fall.“Sure, it’s disappointing and annoying, but not surprising. There are a lot of amazing people who do not get into or go to college,” said Mr. Hogg, who carries a 4.2 GPA and scored 1270 on the SAT. “I wanted to make a difference through storytelling and political activism, but I am already doing that now.”The Parkland students are a case study in civic engagement. They are among the leaders of the #NeverAgain movement, collectively delivering fiery speeches that demand change, promoting their message on social media and organizing the March for Our Lives rally held last weekend, which drew participants from across the globe.Much of their leadership and community work, driven by the loss of classmates and friends, might not have been considered in the college admission process. Now, some of the most vocal Parkland seniors — whether accepted or denied to their top college choices — are rethinking their college plans, hoping in one way or another to capitalize on the momentum.Samantha Fuentes, who was wounded by a bullet and shrapnel in the Parkland attack, is contemplating sitting out the first semester or even the full year to continue the campaign to promote more rigorous gun safety laws.“If the movement is solidifying even more and hitting the nation from all directions and they need soldiers, I will put college off,” said Ms. Fuentes, 18, who is staying close to home with tentative plans to attend Broward Community College, then Florida Atlantic University.As a shooting victim and survivor, she is willing to speak at universities or to politicians about gun legislation.“The truth is, us kids, we just want to be the voice for the people we lost, or for people who don’t think they have a voice,” said Ms. Fuentes, who would like to eventually become an elementary schoolteacher. “I am prioritizing this over college right now, I am prioritizing people’s lives over my education.”University admissions offices declined to discuss individual applications, but many noted that civic engagement is a plus in considering whether to admit an applicant. In fact, some colleges publicly assured high school applicants in advance of last weekend’s March for Our Lives rallies that their participation in peaceful protests would not harm admission chances.Harvard, for example, issued a statement: “The mission of Harvard College is to provide a deeply transformative liberal arts and sciences education that will prepare our students for a life of citizenship and leadership. Fundamental to our mission is our belief that students have the right to protest peacefully about issues of concern to them. Students who are disciplined for engaging responsibly in exercising their rights and freedoms would not have their chances of admission compromised or their admissions revoked.”While on spring break this week, Mr. Hogg said he was leaning toward taking a gap year to focus on the midterm elections, hoping to rally young voters and target politicians supported by the National Rifle Association.“We are trying to get these laws changed to drive down the number of people who die by gun violence,” he said. “I can figure out everything else later.”Mr. Hogg said he does not believe his outspokenness had anything to do with the college denials, but admits it has been frustrating. In a late-night, March 16 message on Twitter — liked by at least 64,000 and retweeted nearly 6,600 times — Mr. Hogg told his followers, “Just got rejected from another college but that’s ok we’re already changing the world. Goodnight everyone.”He added that he was comforting himself by eating chocolate muffins. The response was mixed, with some mocking his rejection, some encouraging him to take a gap year and others touting him as precisely the type of student colleges should recruit.After a Twitter follower suggested he apply to a California university, Mr. Hogg confirmed that one of the schools that denied his application was University of California, San Diego. The University of California, Los Angeles, also turned him down, he said later.On Wednesday morning, Laura Ingraham, the conservative radio host, taunted Mr. Hogg by linking to a story on Twitter about his college application denials. “David Hogg Rejected by Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it,” she said. Mr. Hogg pushed back, calling for sponsors to boycott Ms. Ingraham’s show. He later posted a list of advertisers to his nearly 600,000 followers, and Ms. Ingraham on Thursday apologized on Twitter.“Any student should be proud of a 4.2 GPA,” including Mr. Hogg, she wrote. “On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland.”Ryan Deitsch, a Parkland classmate who wants to follow his father and grandfather into filmmaking and photography, said his applications were rejected from several schools, including U.C.L.A. and Northwestern University. He was admitted to Florida State University, Savannah College of Art and Design and Columbia College Chicago.“I don’t know what the next couple of months will look like. Right now, we are ramped up and the world is watching so now is the time for us to act,” Mr. Deitsch, 18, said just hours after a phone interview with Columbia College Hollywood, which is not affiliated with the Chicago school. “To do that, some of us might have to change our original plans. Right now, I am thinking of taking at least a semester off to devote to the movement.”Though the shooting and organized response thrust Parkland students into the spotlight, Mr. Deitsch, a student journalist who filmed students in the aftermath of the shooting, does not believe it entitles him to special college privileges.“It’s disappointing to not get into certain schools, but I try to keep things in perspective,” he said. “I am not angry. If I didn’t qualify then I shouldn’t just be admitted because I spoke the loudest. There is much more important work for us to do.”
JANESVILLE, Wis. —  Some Wisconsin students who took their demonstration against gun violence on the road reached their destination Wednesday — House Speaker Paul Ryan's home turf.About 50 students set out Sunday from Madison on their "50 Miles More" march. They reached their destination in Janesville and demonstrated in a park for stricter gun laws. Ryan, a Republican who has opposed gun restrictions, is in the Czech Republic on an official visit and was not there when the marchers arrived.The march came more than a month after a gunman killed 17 students and staff members at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.Bea Windorski said she marched because gun violence "affects every single American, especially the students of America. Enough is enough."The students carried signs reading "No more silence! End gun violence" and "Books not bullets," and they chanted "Hey hey, ho ho, the NRA has got to go."One supporter took the podium during the demonstration and broke down in tears."I am standing here so my voice is heard. We are all standing here so our voices will be heard. And if Paul Ryan and other politicians refuse, then we will take our voices to the voting booth in November," said Maria Mendoza, a march supporter.Katie Eder, one of the march organizers, said she kept moving "because despite so many people telling us that ending gun violence is impossible, it's too ambitious, it's too difficult, I believe with every bone in my very sore body that this is the time to do the impossible."Not all the speakers were students. Pardeep Kaleka, whose father and five others were fatally shot at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, in August 2012, also spoke. He said the students were an answer to his father's prayers that he said as he was dying.The students said they want a ban on military-style guns and accessories that turn semi-automatic weapons into automatic weapons. They also want a four-day waiting period for all gun purchases, background checks on all gun sales, and the legal age to buy a gun increased to 21.Adult volunteers walked with the students, who spent the nights in schools along the route.___This story has been corrected to show that the last name of a march supporter is Mendoza, not Mandoza.
The Second Amendment to the Constitution reads:The Library of Congress writes, “The meaning of this sentence is not self-evident, and has given rise to much commentary but relatively few Supreme Court decisions.”What do you think the words of the Second Amendment mean? What relevance should they have for the national debate about gun laws?Then read these four excerpts from Opinion pieces published this month in The Times — or follow the links to read the complete Op-Ed — and decide: What do you think lawmakers should do about guns and gun violence?Excerpt 1: In “John Paul Stevens: Repeal the Second Amendment,” John Paul Stevens, a retired associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, writes:_________Excerpt 2: In “After the March, Follow This Gun Reform Battle Plan,” Steve Israel, a Democratic representative from Long Island from 2001 to 2017, writes:He continues:_________Excerpt 3: In “Stop Shielding Gun Makers,” Brad S. Karp, the chairman of the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, and H. Christopher Boehning, a partner there, write:_________Excerpt 4: In “Why Gun Culture Is So Strong in Rural America,” Robert Leonard, the news director for the radio stations KNIA and KRLS, writes:_________Students: After reading the four excerpts above, tell us:— Why does this topic interest you? How have your own experiences shaped your opinions? What questions or concerns does this topic raise for you?— Do you believe the government is currently striking the right balance between public safety and protecting people’s individual rights? Why or why not?— Would you rather the government err on the side of protecting an individual’s right to own a gun, or on the public’s health and safety? Or do you feel this is a false choice? Why?— After mass shootings or renewed fears that the government will ban gun ownership, many people go out to buy guns — perhaps to feel safer in times of insecurity. Americans now own more than 300 million guns. Do you think people buying more guns will prevent gun deaths?— How should we try to reduce the number of gun deaths and injuries in the United States? Do you think lawmakers should pursue any of the options discussed in the Opinion pieces above? If so, which ones, and why?— What other options or possible solutions exist, in your view, and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
In an Op-Ed essay on Tuesday, the former Supreme Court justice John Paul Stevens called for the repeal of the Second Amendment. Readers debated it on social media and in the comments section of the piece. Below is a sample of some representative viewpoints, edited lightly for clarity. For more, read the essay and comments here.Retired Justice Stevens confirms the need for conservative voices on the Supreme Court. He would change the second most important amendment based solely on his emotional lack of logic, not on history. The Second Amendment was created to guarantee the eternal freedom of the citizenry from an overreaching federal government. The same argument applies today, as history proves that one of the first steps for authoritarian governments is to remove firearms from their future serfs. Then comes free speech and religion. The founding fathers were much more wise than Stevens. — Jon Galt, Tex.Frankly, in the wake of District of Columbia v. Heller, I don’t see how any meaningful gun control could be enacted without a repeal of the Second Amendment. Heller elevated the right to own a gun to such a high level, it is right up there with freedom of speech and the right to due process. Even the most mild, seemingly sensible gun control measures can now be challenged on constitutional grounds, with a high probability of success. Heller created such an impregnable shield around the Second Amendment that tearing it out root and branch seems like the only way. — Dennis FritzRight-wing talking points aside, the Second Amendment was never written to guarantee the eternal freedom of the citizenry from an overreaching federal government. It was written — long before we had a standing army — to guarantee a well-regulated militia to defend the country from being attacked. It is a relic we tolerate to maintain consensus and something resembling unity in this country. — Eric Beyer, New YorkUp to now I have been a Second Amendment supporter, but I have never been against controls on large-capacity magazines, Teflon-coated bullets, background checks, etc. I could accept repeal of the amendment, but I would need to know precisely what was replacing it. All gun owners would need to know that. — Williamigriffith, South CarolinaEveryone is concerned about rights, but few chime in about responsibility. The wording of the Second Amendment is about being ready to fight for your country, with no standing army extant. You have an army now. “Militia” readiness is redundant. On another point, please remember this was an amendment. It can be modified or even repealed entirely. The issue of personal safety is a red herring. Japan has a much lower rate of gun violence. Canada, Britain, Australia and other countries are doing just fine without all the guns and some of the nuts who advocate for them. What makes America so “exceptional” that the rules of law and human nature do not apply to them? — mdroy100, OntarioThere’s no need to repeal the Second Amendment, and pushing for it seems unnecessarily divisive. Courts have consistently ruled that regulating firearms does not violate it, and we’ve had common-sense gun regulation in the past. The last assault-weapons ban survived constitutional challenges, and there’s no reason a new one wouldn’t. Combine such a ban with strict background checks, training and licensing, and you can mitigate the number of mass shootings. Only the extremists want to ban all guns; clearly, there are ways to regulate weapons without taking away people’s rights. Further, the process to repeal a constitutional amendment takes many years, which makes this argument even weaker.— Marc McClenahan, ArizonaI have no problem repealing the Second Amendment and believe it is a great position from which to begin. Often liberal politics start negotiations from a position of compromise, forcing us to move right when the other side screams “compromise!” If we start from a position that moves us to a fair compromise, I say go for it: Repeal the Second! — Sara McElroy, New York
WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Wednesday that the Second Amendment — the right to keep and bear arms — “will never be repealed,” responding to an opinion piece written by a retired Supreme Court justice who called for just that.Mr. Trump’s declaration in an early morning tweet came after days of silence on the subject, despite student-organized  marches around the country over the weekend calling for more gun control.On Tuesday, the retired Justice John Paul Stevens wrote an Op-Ed  in The New York Times calling for the repeal of the Second Amendment.“Rarely in my lifetime have I seen the type of civic engagement schoolchildren and their supporters demonstrated in Washington and other major cities throughout the country this past Saturday,” Mr. Stevens wrote. “These demonstrations demand our respect. They reveal the broad public support for legislation to minimize the risk of mass killings of schoolchildren and others in our society.”Repealing the Second Amendment would have to be approved by Congress, and there are no signs that such a move is underway.“It is unequivocally not the Democratic caucus’ position to repeal the Second Amendment,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the top Democrat in the Senate, said in a statement to The New York Times on Wednesday. “The president has to tweet this because he and the Republicans are reeling.”Mr. Schumer, of New York, said the student marches are having an impact on the traditional argument about gun safety. The choice, he said, is not between gun rights and no gun rights.“Reasonable proposals that adhere to the Second Amendment but improve gun safety such as universal background checks, protective orders and a debate on the assault weapons ban are the way of the future,” Mr. Schumer said.Mr. Stevens retired from the Supreme Court in 2010. He wrote a major dissent about the Second Amendment in one of the court’s hardest-fought decisions. Mr. Stevens argued that the amendment does not protect an individual’s right to own firearms.“That decision — which I remain convinced was wrong and certainly was debatable — has provided the N.R.A. with a propaganda weapon of immense power,” Mr. Stevens wrote on Tuesday, referring to the National Rifle Association, the powerful gun lobbying group. “Overturning that decision via a constitutional amendment to get rid of the Second Amendment would be simple and would do more to weaken the N.R.A.’s ability to stymie legislative debate and block constructive gun control legislation than any other available option.”Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, indicated the administration was not considering a repeal of the Second Amendment.“The president and the administration still fully support the Second Amendment,” Ms. Sanders said on Tuesday in response to a question about Mr. Stevens’s Op-Ed. “We think that the focus has to remain on removing weapons from dangerous individuals, not on blocking all Americans from their constitutional rights.”In his tweet, Mr. Trump also said that Democrats support repealing the Second Amendment, but that has not been the case in Congress, which is only considering modest policy changes on guns. In the 1990s, a Democratic congressman from New York introduced legislation for a repeal, but it did not get any traction. Mr. Trump’s opponent in the 2016 election, Hillary Clinton, did not campaign to repeal the Second Amendment.“We can uphold Second Amendment rights while preventing senseless gun violence,” Mrs. Clinton tweeted in May 2016.Mr. Trump had the support of the N.R.A. early in his campaign for president and has said he is “the biggest fan of the Second Amendment.” After the deadly mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last month, Mr. Trump proposed stricter controls on access to guns, particularly raising the age to purchase an assault weapon to 21 from 18. After a meeting with the N.R.A., Mr. Trump no longer advocated for an age increase.Instead, the White House — with the support of the N.R.A. — says appropriately trained teachers should be armed to respond to future mass shootings.“Gun free zones are proven targets of killers,” Mr. Trump tweeted on March 1.Arming teachers has been widely criticized, recently by people who gathered for marches for more gun control.At a March for Our Lives demonstration in Anchorage, Alaska, on Saturday, Melanie Anderson, a 44-year-old middle schoolteacher, held up a sign that said “teacher, not sharp shooter.”
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Family, friends and strangers, some expressing anger and frustration, gathered in Sacramento on Wednesday for a public wake for 22-year-old Stephon Clark, an unarmed man shot by police in his grandparents' backyard.Some attendees wore black shirts calling for justice, while one woman held up a clenched fist as she exited the Bayside of South Sacramento church. The wake was largely quiet until Clark's brother, Stevante Clark, shouted at the media to leave before being picked up and carried away.The outburst came a day after he disrupted a Sacramento City Council meeting and chanted his brother's name at Mayor Darrell Steinberg.Some said the two police officers who shot Clark should be criminally charged, while other mourners said they could envision their own families in Clark's family's place."This feels like the '60s, it doesn't feel like 2018. We've definitely regressed," said Cynthia Brown, a friend of Clark's grandfather who brought her 10- and 15-year-old grandsons to the wake. "To me, (they) could be Stephon Clark."The Rev. Al Sharpton plans to deliver the eulogy at Clark's funeral on Thursday.Tensions remain high in California's capital city following the March 18 shooting. Two police officers who were responding to a report of someone breaking car windows fatally shot him in his grandparents' backyard. Police say they believe Clark was the suspect and he ran when a police helicopter responded, then did not obey officers' orders.Police say they thought Clark was holding a gun when he moved toward them, but he was found only with a cellphone.Many mourners weren't buying that narrative."You always feel threatened — you're a law enforcement officer, it comes with your job title," said Rahim Wasi. "That doesn't give you a right to go running around like Clint Eastwood in a movie."Some of Clark's relatives were more conciliatory."We're not mad at all the law enforcement. We're not trying to start a riot," said Shernita Crosby, Stephon Clark's aunt. "What we want the world to know is that we got to stop this because black lives matter."Cousin Suzette Clark said the family wants Stephon Clark remembered as "more than just a hashtag."He was outgoing, funny, loving, a good-looking man who liked to dress sharp and the doting father of two young sons."He made some mistakes in his life, but he was genuinely a good person," she said.Protests have been held almost daily in town and on Wednesday, hundreds of people marched in New York City to protest the shooting. Police there said someone threw a bottle at an officer and at least 11 people were detained as tensions flared.Sacramento marchers have twice blocked fans from entering the NBA arena downtown for Sacramento Kings games.The Kings warned Wednesday that there will be a "significant" police presence in and around the Golden 1 Center on Thursday to keep protesters from reaching the plaza and blocking fans for a third time.Sgt. Vince Chandler said officers would be ready to respond in protective gear, according to The Sacramento Bee.There also will be additional stadium security and barriers along with ticket checks at the plaza outskirts.On Wednesday, about 50 protesters took over the intersection near the Sacramento district attorney's office as part of a protest organized by the local Black Lives Matter chapter to urge the district attorney to file charges against the officers.They disrupted midtown rush hour traffic as they marched through the streets. Latavia Ross, pushing her 2-year-old son Jayceon Hurts in a stroller, said she attended the protest because she thinks it's good for the community to come together to end to gun violence.Meanwhile, Steinberg said disruptions like Stevante Clark's at Tuesday's council meeting won't happen again."That sort of demonstration in the council chamber cannot happen again. It won't happen again. But in that moment, that was a brother grieving for the loss of his brother," he said.For all the angst and raw emotions, some grieving and weary family members are skeptical that any substantive change will result before the next young black man dies from police gunfire and siphons away the national media and banner headlines."You know, sadly, I have no confidence in America and the fact that I will probably hear another story sometime this year of an innocent life lost over excessive police force," Curtis Gordon, Clark's uncle and the family's spokesman, told The Associated Press in an interview Tuesday. "It's so common, you're numb to it."The California attorney general's office on Tuesday joined the investigation, a move Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn said he hopes will bring "faith and transparency" to a case that he said has sparked "extremely high emotions, anger and hurt in our city."___Associated Press writer Sophia Bollag and videographer Haven Daley contributed to this story.
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.______I’m in rural Victoria this week reporting on immigration — part of our effort to explore Australia’s multicultural present and future — and I have to say, now I get why so many of you urged me to get out of the cities and into the country.This isn’t my first trip to regional Australia, and let’s put aside the “real Australia” argument; in my book, cities and towns are both reflections of national character.But just as dinner parties are different with six guests rather than 60, towns with a few hundred people do have a lot to teach about human interaction and how a country really works.In my experience, towns of the singular — one market, one intersection — tend to produce a few things in abundance. Questions are among them. Visiting reporters rarely get too far without being asked about their plans, and within a day or so, word gets around.If you’re deemed trustworthy, introductions are made, phone numbers are shared and people just appear to tell their stories.Pubs help.Here in Pyramid Hill, we arrived and dropped our bags in a couple of rooms at the Victoria Hotel around 3 p.m. on Monday. A few hours later, the local mayor stopped by for a chat and a beer on her way home from work.The local footy coach sat at the other end of the bar, beneath fading photos from decades past, and thanks to David Demaine, our friendly publican, I quickly discovered that the coach was married to the principal of the local public school, Pyramid Hill College.She appeared a few minutes later, not just at the pub, but at my table.No wonder writers love these kinds of towns.E.B. White, who inspired me as a child with “Charlotte’s Web” and again as a young reporter with his signature essay, “Here is New York,” lived on a farm in rural Maine for 48 years.Tim Winton, even as he promotes a new novel called “The Shepherd’s Hut,” still deliberately avoids telling anyone where he can be found in Western Australia to preserve the peace and quiet of his coastal community.And then there’s Gerald Murnane, the Australian literary savant who has landed in Goroke, a stretch of remote Victoria a few hours from where I am.I’m half tempted to try to make the trip after reading this week’s fantastic profile of him in The New York Times Magazine. With minimal effort, I imagine I could find a way to fit in at the men’s shed where he and a bunch of other retirees spend a lot of time tinkering and talking.The shed reminded me a bit of the Op Shop here. (For the non-Aussies, that’s a vintage store, the “opportunity shop,” which sells donated goods, in this case to benefit the local nursing home.)I stopped in Tuesday afternoon and bought three antique port glasses from a couple of older volunteers who were mending dresses for some Filipino girls at the local Catholic school.Each glass cost me … go on, guess.Try 20 cents.The woman who sold them to me wrapped them carefully in gray paper to ensure they made it back to Sydney, and as we chatted about how the town was changing with the influx of Filipinos (more on that in a future story), I started to wonder what else I might buy.There was a big “for sale” sign out in front of the pub.My room was comfortable and clean. The place had good bones, solid wood floors, lots of space and decent water pressure.Would it be weird for The New York Times to buy into a piece of regional Australian life? Would it even be possible?Probably not. But in a place this friendly and quiet, it’s a ribbon of thought that keeps twirling.Now for the week’s reads … and a call for your recommendations about what to listen to, read or watch to better understand regional Australia.Share your ideas in our Facebook group or by emailing nytaustralia@nytimes.com — and tell your friends to sign up for this newsletter and send their suggestions too!______Australians often ask me why Americans are so obsessed with guns, but what we’re witnessing now is a historic push in the other direction.Last Saturday, vast crowds of demonstrators gathered across the United States to protest gun violence. It was a triumph of organic, youthful grass-roots energy and sophisticated, experienced organizational muscle.In one poignant moment, Emma González, a survivor of last month’s shooting in Parkland, Fla., read the names of the victims before staring ahead for 4 minutes and 26 seconds to convey the length of the attack.You can see dispatches from our reporters on the ground and analysis of what this means for the future of gun policy in the U.S., here.______Who is Stormy Daniels?Read about her life and reputation — starting back when she was just Stephanie Clifford, a Floridian with ambition — before she took on her pornographic stage name, and long before she shook Washington with her claims to have had an affair with President Trump.Then read about how she’s out-Trumping Trump, according to our TV critic.______Lots of things are signs of status: cars, handbags, shoes, watches. And fish — the ones that get plastic surgery.“The idea of cosmetic surgery for a fish may sound extreme,” Amy Qin writes in her story from Singapore. “But the Asian arowana is not your average pet store fish. Known as the long yu, or ‘dragon fish’ in Chinese, it reigns as one of the world’s most expensive aquarium fish, selling for anywhere from a few hundred dollars to tens of thousands of dollars.”______In-DepthWith the publication of two new books, Gerald Murnane might finally find an American audience.A plan to extract natural gas in “Australia’s Galápagos” could bolster the economy, but the fishing and tourism industries say it’s not worth the risk.NewsAt least 22 other nations, including Australia and the U.S., backed Britain in expelling Russian officials.Senior players schemed to tamper with the ball during a series in South Africa, a revelation that has stunned a sport that prides itself on fair play.• A First in Flight: Australia to the U.K., in 17 Hours: Qantas calls its first direct, nonstop Dreamliner flight from Perth to London a “game changer.”• 150 Whales Beached in Australia, as Rescuers Fight to Save Them: Poor weather and the threat of sharks were hindering emergency efforts.For FunA quiz for our country of the week (New Zealanders will obviously have the upper hand).• The 5 Most-Read ‘Modern Love’ Columns in Australia: You read them, we compiled them. Here are Australia’s favorite essays on love, in all its delightful and dark nuance.: After enduring the struggle to buy a home, a multicultural crowd of friends gathers for a Hindu celebration.______Stormy Daniels said she was physically threatened after selling her story of a sexual liaison with Donald Trump. It rings all too true, writes the Times editorial board.•  A student says the notion that the recent Parkland, Fla., shootings wouldn’t have occurred if students had been kinder is deeply dangerous.: Why do people perform their relationships online? Who is it for? Krista Burton on #weekiversaries.A virtual-reality video about discovering quiet in an ever-noisier world.______This week, as I prepare to write about Pyramid Hill and other small towns, I’m looking for suggestions: Share your favorite movies, songs, books, essays or photographs that go deep toward understanding rural, regional Australia.All suggestions, big or small, are welcome. As are stories and tales of your own.You know how to find me: nytaustralia@nytimes.com. Thank you!
