BALTIMORE —  Imani Holt was just 10 when she saw a neighbor get fatally shot by a triggerman riding a bicycle. The African-American girl from a gritty section of Baltimore was so traumatized by the drug-fueled bloodshed she refused to leave her family's apartment for weeks.In the eight years since, Holt has seen the chaotic aftermath of two more deadly shootings and has lost seven high school classmates to the daily drip of gun violence.Like many black teenagers in neighborhoods hobbled by generational poverty, she is scrutinizing the national gun control debate intensely, frustrated because her community feels ignored but also cautiously hopeful that the massacre in Florida may bring about change closer to home."I feel really bad that they lost those kids in Florida. But, like, we go through shootings all the time. It's just that our shootings happen day by day. Because it happens on the regular up here, the world says it's really not that important," said the 18-year-old Holt, a junior at Excel Academy, an alternative high school across the street from a cluster of West Baltimore's boarded-up row houses.Christina Martin, a 17-year-old who lost two schoolmates to gun violence this year at Thurgood Marshall Academy in Washington, noted that the victims in the affluent Parkland community were mostly white and Latino. None were African-American."We should have got the same attention in return," said Martin, who is black.The gun violence toll is unrelenting in parts of Baltimore — a city that reached a grim milestone last year when the per-capita homicide rate rose to 56 killings per 100,000 people. That's the highest rate among the country's 30 biggest cities.Even as Excel Academy students prepared for last Saturday's March for Our Lives protest, gun violence struck again: A 17-year-old classmate was shot on a street corner, three bullets in the back by an unidentified gunman.The deaths of seven classmates to gun violence over the span of 15 months have left deep emotional scars. The students at Excel agree that their high school — with a metal detector at the entrance— provides a sense of security. But the toll on their bodies and minds is significant. Nerves are on edge. It can be hard to concentrate."It's really scary. You just want to go to sleep, wake up and see the same people you saw yesterday. But it's like: One day you see somebody, the next day they're gone," Holt said.At the New Hope Baptist Church in New Orleans' Central City neighborhood — an area that has struggled with crime — Pastor Jamaal Weathersby has presided over funeral services for a toddler killed in a shooting and three brothers all shot in the same incident. He worries about the impact that repeated gun violence has on young people."There are so many young people who are suffering silently, trying to internalize how their brothers, sisters, uncles, even parents are being gunned down in our streets and I think it's something, no matter how long, eventually I believe it's going to come out in some shape, form or fashion, whether it's depression, keeping up in school," he said.Parkland's student protesters are well aware that their peers in inner-city districts are dealing with the impact of gun violence daily. Earlier this month, they met with Chicago teens. Before the Washington march on Saturday, a number of students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School went to Thurgood Marshall High School to hear from students there."We openly recognize that we are privileged individuals and would not have received as much attention if it weren't for the affluence of our city. Because of that, however, we share the stage today and forever with those who have always stared down the barrel of a gun," Parkland student Jaclyn Corin said during a speech Saturday.Many worry that despite the renewed attention on gun violence and gun laws, little will change. Angel Anderson went to the New Orleans March for Our Lives rally Saturday to support her 13-year-old daughter. Her own son was robbed at gunpoint outside her house in the middle of the day by a gunman who wanted his hover board."I just feel like we're on our own," she said.Others are hopeful that the voices of impassioned young people can push policymakers to do something."This gun violence has got to stop somewhere," said Holt, who was among 25 Excel Academy students and staff who joined hundreds of thousands of people Saturday to call for tougher laws against firearms and ammo at Washington's March for Our Lives rally. "This might be the start of real change happening now. Not just for Florida, for us too. For everybody."___Santana reported from New Orleans. Associated Press reporter Noreen Nasir in Washington D.C. contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON —  A retired U.S. Supreme Court justice on Tuesday called for the repeal of the U.S. Constitution's Second Amendment, which gives Americans the right to keep and bear firearms, and the White House responded by reaffirming its support for the provision.Former Justice John Paul Stevens, who sat on the country's highest court for 35 years before retiring in 2010, is one of the highest-profile legal figures to join the national debate on school shootings, gun violence and firearms ownership.The long-running debate flared anew after a gunman killed 17 students and faculty at a Florida high school in February, prompting an upsurge of gun control activism by teenage students, including mass protests nationwide last weekend."Rarely in my lifetime have I seen the type of civic engagement schoolchildren and their supporters demonstrated in Washington and other major cities throughout the country this past Saturday," Stevens, 97, wrote in an opinion article in the New York Times. "These demonstrations demand our respect."His repeal proposal goes further than demands by the student demonstrators, who have generally called for measures such as raising the minimum age for purchasing guns from 18 to 21 and requiring more comprehensive background checks for buying firearms.Asked about Stevens' call for repeal, presidential spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said, "The president and the administration still fully support the Second Amendment."We think that the focus has to remain on removing weapons from dangerous individuals, not on blocking all Americans from their constitutional rights," she told a news briefing.Republican President Donald Trump strongly supported the amendment during his 2016 election campaign, but following the Florida shooting has supported some gun control measures such as expanded background checks.Chris Cox, executive director of the lobbying arm for the National Rifle Association, the leading proponent of gun rights, called the idea of repealing the Second Amendment "radical.""We will unapologetically continue to fight to protect this fundamental freedom," Cox said.In his article, Stevens described how the Supreme Court had curbed the Second Amendment's reach during the 20th century and labeled the concern that prompted the amendment - that a national army might pose a threat to the separate states during the United States' infant years - "a relic of the 18th century."The amendment's text reads: "A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed."Stevens wrote that repealing the amendment "would eliminate the only legal rule that protects sellers of firearms in the United States — unlike every other market in the world.""It would make our schoolchildren safer than they have been since 2008 and honor the memories of the many, indeed far too many, victims of recent gun violence."Stevens, nominated to the court by Republican President Gerald Ford, had previously called for modifying the Second Amendment.Changes to the Constitution can be proposed only with a two-thirds vote in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate or by a constitutional convention called by two-thirds of the states, and must be ratified by three-fourths of the 50 states.The overwhelming majority of amendments have not passed, and only one has been repealed. The 27th Amendment, which concerns lawmakers' pay, is the most recent change to the constitution. It was ratified in 1992, although it was originally proposed in 1789.(Reporting by Makini Brice; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
To the Editor:Re “Repeal the Second Amendment” (Op-Ed, March 28):The retired justice John Paul Stevens is right to highlight the Second Amendment’s role in the gun debate, including the fact that it is sometimes deployed as a “propaganda weapon” against gun regulation. It is also important to recognize that, as a matter of law, the Second Amendment is perfectly consistent with gun regulation.Justice Antonin Scalia’s majority opinion in District of Columbia v. Heller (from which Justice Stevens dissented) emphasized that “the Second Amendment right is not unlimited.” He enumerated a wide range of “presumptively lawful” gun regulations, including bans on possession by felons and the mentally ill, dangerous and unusual weapons, and the carrying of weapons in sensitive places.In more than 1,000 Second Amendment cases in the decade since Heller, courts have fleshed out those categories. They have struck down stringent (and extremely rare) laws like bans on public carry. And they have upheld the vast majority of reasonable gun laws.People sometimes say they oppose gun regulation because they support the Second Amendment, or vice versa. The gun debate is difficult enough without that false dichotomy.JOSEPH BLOCHER, DURHAM, N.C.The writer is a professor at Duke University School of Law.To the Editor:This Op-Ed article is precisely why more people don’t support gun control. Articles like this imply that anyone who wants sensible restrictions to prevent mentally ill teenagers from shooting up schools also wants to repeal the Second Amendment.John Paul Stevens does not speak for me or scores of other people who support both gun rights and responsible gun sales. He is holding the gun control movement back, not pushing it forward.SARYTA RODRIGUEZ, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Rather than subject the country to a prolonged, deeply divisive and likely unsuccessful campaign to repeal the Second Amendment, would it not be preferable to revise its language so as to reflect contemporary social concerns (such as gun violence) while preserving the time-honored right to bear arms for legitimate purposes?This would require us to agree on three main points: 1) gun ownership is a central part of American life; 2) all but a tiny minority of gun owners use them safely and responsibly; and 3) any restrictions on access to, as well as ownership or use of, firearms should apply only to those who might harm others (and themselves) with these weapons.A revised Second Amendment could read as follows: “The right to bear arms for hunting, sport and recreation being a cherished and time-honored tradition, the exercise of this right by responsible persons for these purposes shall not be infringed.”JOHN V.H. DIPPEL SALISBURY, CONN.To the Editor:John Paul Stevens has finally declared out loud what gun advocates have desperately tried to avoid: that the Second Amendment is obsolete. The National Rifle Association shouts that our freedoms are at risk, while Rick Santorum, a former senator, recommended that student protesters stop exercising their First Amendment rights and instead learn CPR.While many of us waste time feeling outraged over the controversial statements, we lose sight of the real goal — eliminating an amendment written by founding fathers whom history has judged to be wrong about several important issues.Recent protests provide hope that the younger generation will prioritize strict gun regulations as they mature into positions of greater influence. Meanwhile, I fear for the generation of children who have to go to school while the adults of today bask in inaction.MARCO STARGERBRIDGEWATER, N.J.To the Editor:Three cheers for John Paul Stevens! The Second Amendment was intended to equip a militia, but we haven’t had one in centuries. It is as quaint as the Third Amendment, about quartering of soldiers. How many Americans are concerned about discovering an uninvited soldier in their living room?ARMAND W. LORANGERBEDFORD, N.Y.
Rarely in my lifetime have I seen the type of civic engagement schoolchildren and their supporters demonstrated in Washington and other major cities throughout the country this past Saturday. These demonstrations demand our respect. They reveal the broad public support for legislation to minimize the risk of mass killings of schoolchildren and others in our society.That support is a clear sign to lawmakers to enact legislation prohibiting civilian ownership of semiautomatic weapons, increasing the minimum age to buy a gun from 18 to 21 years old, and establishing more comprehensive background checks on all purchasers of firearms. But the demonstrators should seek more effective and more lasting reform. They should demand a repeal of the Second Amendment.Concern that a national standing army might pose a threat to the security of the separate states led to the adoption of that amendment, which provides that “a well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.” Today that concern is a relic of the 18th century.[For more on the gun legislation debate and other issues, subscribe to our Opinion Today newsletter.]For over 200 years after the adoption of the Second Amendment, it was uniformly understood as not placing any limit on either federal or state authority to enact gun control legislation. In 1939 the Supreme Court unanimously held that Congress could prohibit the possession of a sawed-off shotgun because that weapon had no reasonable relation to the preservation or efficiency of a “well regulated militia.”During the years when Warren Burger was our chief justice, from 1969 to 1986, no judge, federal or state, as far as I am aware, expressed any doubt as to the limited coverage of that amendment. When organizations like the National Rifle Association disagreed with that position and began their campaign claiming that federal regulation of firearms curtailed Second Amendment rights, Chief Justice Burger publicly characterized the N.R.A. as perpetrating “one of the greatest pieces of fraud, I repeat the word fraud, on the American public by special interest groups that I have ever seen in my lifetime.”In 2008, the Supreme Court overturned Chief Justice Burger’s and others’ long-settled understanding of the Second Amendment’s limited reach by ruling, in District of Columbia v. Heller, that there was an individual right to bear arms. I was among the four dissenters.That decision — which I remain convinced was wrong and certainly was debatable — has provided the N.R.A. with a propaganda weapon of immense power. Overturning that decision via a constitutional amendment to get rid of the Second Amendment would be simple and would do more to weaken the N.R.A.’s ability to stymie legislative debate and block constructive gun control legislation than any other available option.That simple but dramatic action would move Saturday’s marchers closer to their objective than any other possible reform. It would eliminate the only legal rule that protects sellers of firearms in the United States — unlike every other market in the world. It would make our schoolchildren safer than they have been since 2008 and honor the memories of the many, indeed far too many, victims of recent gun violence.
I have to say, I loved the gun-control march I observed last Saturday in Washington. The crowd was good-hearted, gracious, diverse and welcoming. At a time when trust in democracy is waning, everybody kept underlining their faith in our democratic system, that voting is the way to make change. There was no culture war nastiness, no hint of resentment. Hunters and farmers and vets were celebrated. There was no ill will toward anybody but the N.R.A.Of course some of the student speakers were grandiose and pretentious. Most of us were like that when we were 18. But for all their talk of “revolution,” at its heart, this march was about a series of sensible, practical and moderate reforms: restricting assault weapons, expanding background checks and similar measures.Recently, it has seemed like the country is gyrating out of control, that extremism on one side is generating extremism on the other. But the march I saw was not extreme. It was a responsible moral answer to right a very specific wrong, gun violence. It struck me as a very characteristic burst of American moral passion.The march passed what I have come to think of as The Privilege Test. One of the great privileges of life is to be born an American citizen. We are the lucky inheritors of the American Creed, built around freedom, equality, opportunity and democracy. There’s no such thing as the French Creed or the Italian Creed but there is an American creed. As Richard Hofstadter famously put it, “It has been our fate as a nation not to have ideologies, but to be one.”Furthermore, we’re the lucky inheritors of the system Madison, Jefferson and Hamilton built to reify that creed, the words Lincoln, King and others used to expand it. We’re the inheritors of not just philosophical generalizations but of a very specific historical struggle — the legacy that Crispus Attucks, Nathan Hale and Sullivan Ballou left by dying for the creed; the legacy that Eugene Sledge, Frances Perkins, Bayard Rustin and a million immigrant ancestors left by suffering for it.All we have to do is live up to this privilege of being American, to take our turn narrowing the gap between the American Creed, which binds us, and the American reality, which always disappoints us. The rally in Washington, which took place against the symbolic and literal backdrop of the U.S. Capitol dome, seemed squarely in that tradition.You’ll notice that in the preceding paragraphs I use the word “privilege” in a very positive way. The sense of American privilege fills us with gratitude and humility. That privilege unites us across division and disagreement. It calls forth great energies.There are, of course, some parts of society where the word “privilege” has a very negative connotation. In those parts of society, history is not seen as a shared debate over how to pursue a common ideal. Instead it is seen as a zero-sum power struggle between oppressor and oppressed, and America is not a distinct and special place but just another country where the powerful stomp the vulnerable.This prism is an understandable pedagogical tool. It’s a way to show students the reality of injustice and inequality. But as several writers, including Phoebe Maltz Bovy, have argued, this concept of negative privilege doesn’t seem to lead to productive social change.The negative-privilege mind-set usually begins with a privilege call-out. Somebody accuses someone of not checking their privilege. This leads the accused to respond that in fact my group has also been marginalized, and that if anyone is the oppressor, it’s some other group more privileged than mine. This leads to an ever-higher-decibel-level identity war that sucks up everybody’s good will and doesn’t actually lead to social action.It’s the perfect exercise for the social media age because everything happens on the level of display. The result is a bunch of divisive bickering that leaves everyone feeling offended and morally superior. Saturday’s march reminded me that it’s still possible to practice a style of politics that doesn’t send us down that recrimination psychodrama.As Samuel Huntington used to argue, the key fact of the American Creed is distrust of centralized authority. So moments of creedal passion are almost always about opening up the system, expanding participation, decentralizing power. They are about new groups previously outside the system busting their way in and taking possession of the great privilege to be American.Saturday’s march reminded me that often we behave better than we talk. Sometimes I think the decimation of American history in the schools has left a generation ignorant of the creed and ungrateful toward our ancestors’ heroic sacrifices that brought it down to us. When I look at the Twitter commentary of the march I see out of context insults that distort the reality of what actually happened.But the deep inheritance isn’t so easily blotted out. Saturday I saw people motivated by idealism and humbled by gratitude. Do some people have benefits they haven’t earned? Yes, and some a lot more than others. But none of us has earned the great privilege we share together and which is the furnace of most reform.
A conservative blog said that another wasn’t even at the school during the killings — then had to backtrack on Monday when that also proved false.The attacks on the teenage survivors of the shooting in Parkland, Fla., have been fierce from the beginning, and have only continued since the students helped spearhead hundreds of protests this weekend.Two of the most vocal survivors, Emma González, 18, and David Hogg, 17, have been targets of a disproportionate amount of vitriol.In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Hogg said they had been singled out because of their prominence and emphasized that ad hominem attacks would not end school shootings.“I mean, we’re kind of the faces of the movement,” he said. “Together we kind of form an unstoppable force that terrifies them.”He added that he and Ms. González were being attacked “because they know we’re strong.”Here are a few of the recent attempts to discredit the students.RedState, a conservative blog, ran an “update” Monday evening to a story it had published that questioned whether Mr. Hogg was present at Marjory Stoneman Douglas during the day of the shooting.Sarah Rumpf, a writer for RedState, had questioned Mr. Hogg after watching an interview where he said he rode his bike to the school on the day of the shooting to interview his classmates.The bike trip was described in a Vox article written in February. It indicated that Mr. Hogg had been at school during the shooting, as widely confirmed by many news organizations. He had left campus and then rode his bike back that evening to interview classmates.Video has shown that Mr. Hogg was in a closet during the shooting. Ms. Rumpf eventually found the article and video, and apologized.RedState struck through the old article, but did not describe the update as a correction, seeming to blame the misinformation on confusing reports elsewhere. The false report was spread by well-known conservatives, including Erick Erickson, who has contributed to The New York Times opinion section. Mr. Erickson later deleted his original tweet.The doctored image of Ms. González ripping apart the Constitution of the United States, began to spread during the march on Saturday. It was falsified from a Teen Vogue image in which she was pictured ripping apart a paper shooting target.The image, which exists in a gray area between meme and misinformation, was promoted on Gab, the alt-right alternative to Twitter, and by the right-wing actor Adam Baldwin.Some claimed the image to be satire, and similar memes of President Trump and other political figures appear across the spectrum. But the political scientist Emily Thorson has pointed out that their spread contributes to a climate of misinformation, even if those who see the images understand them to be fake.Steve King, the Republican congressman from Iowa, posted on Facebook about the Cuban flag sewn to Ms. González’s jacket.“This is how you look when you claim Cuban heritage yet don’t speak Spanish,” the post said, “and ignore the fact that your ancestors fled the island when the dictatorship turned Cuba into a prison camp, after removing all weapons from its citizens; hence their right to self-defense.” It showed an image of her with the flag patch visible on her jacket.The post and similar ones angered other survivors of gun violence and even some of Mr. King’s fellow conservatives, who pointed out that the Cuban flag has long been used by dissidents from the Castro regime.Ms. González retweeted Mr. Hogg’s response to Mr. King: “She’s a beautiful woman of Cuban descent and we love her. You would too if you ever got the chance to meet her.”She also retweeted another of Mr. Hogg’s tweets, which called on Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican of Florida of Cuban descent, to respond to Mr. King.The conservative writer and commentator Dan McLaughlin suggested that reporters ask Ms. González “what the flag means to her and why she wears it.” She did not respond to a call Tuesday.Many attacks on the Parkland students do not even pretend to focus on issues or substance. They include the false conspiracy trope that the students are paid actors. Sometimes their appearances and intelligence are mocked, including their efforts to get accepted to colleges this spring.On Sunday, the conservative podcaster and vocal Trump supporter Bill Mitchell referred to Mr. Hogg as a “Damien, Children of the Corn, Hitler-Youth type” on Twitter.The vitriol has sometimes backfired. A Republican candidate for the Maine State House dropped out of the race after calling Ms. González a “skinhead lesbian” and Mr. Hogg a “moron” and a “baldfaced liar.”In a Tuesday interview, Nicole Hockley, whose young son Dylan was killed in the 2012 school shooting in Newtown, Conn., advised the students to ignore the attacks as much as possible. She recalled that she had faced conspiracy theories and personal attacks after her 6-year-old son was killed along with 19 other first graders at Sandy Hook Elementary School.She remembered how that felt: “All I’m trying to do is make it so this doesn’t happen to other people and you’re attacking me without a lot of basis.”She said that it was also important to hear rational criticism when trying to find common ground on the issues.When dealing with more reasonable opponents and critics she tries to de-escalate the conversations, she said, to learn more about what they think and educate them about her views.“Sometimes there’s a new perspective that I haven’t considered,” she said, though she rarely finds such views persuasive. Still, she said, those conversations “can bear a lot of fruit.”
Our usual message to children is that they have a lot less authority than they might wish. Parents, teachers, adults: These are the people, we explain, who are in charge. But in March, as tens of thousands of children across the country flooded out of their classrooms to protest gun violence in schools, the moment was hailed by some as a tremendous display of power — perhaps especially in those places where school administrators flexed their own authority and tried to prohibit students from participating. “Supporters say the walkouts and demonstrations represent a realization of power and influence by young people,” The Washington Post reported. “So amazing to see young people take back their power and USE it!” Miley Cyrus tweeted. “By myself, I don’t think I have the power,” one student told MSNBC. “But together with all these people here, I think we can make a change.”The very reason for the demonstrations, of course, was that the students did not possess one very specific kind of power — the ability to make rules or laws that might somehow curtail the number of guns and shootings in their schools. This lack of control over their own safety has been a key aspect of their rhetoric ever since survivors of the February shooting in Parkland, Fla., captured the nation’s attention via Twitter. “We’re children,” David Hogg said in an appearance on CNN. “You guys are the adults.”At least one senator seemed to agree, locating the real power not with the students but with the audience they addressed: “Keep speaking truth to power and demanding change,” Kirsten Gillibrand urged. In theory, that power resides with the nation’s voters, but even this is too indirect; we already know that Americans overwhelmingly favor more stringent gun regulation than their elected officials are inclined to enact. It is a much smaller segment of people who hold the clearest authority to change things: the professional political class. And even as those children demonstrated, a healthy portion of that class was studiously ignoring them and earnestly debating the merits of arming teachers instead. If they were in any real way affected by the power of a student walkout, they certainly weren’t admitting it. The students’ power to captivate a share of the public sat in one corner; elected officials’ power to actually rule over that public sat quietly in another. No matter how thundering the children’s dissent might have been, there was no meaningful intersection between those two kinds of power.In 1990, the Harvard international relations scholar Joseph Nye published a book, “Bound to Lead,” in which he drew a distinction between two different forms of power. One was what he called “hard” or “command” power — the traditional guns-and-money leverage one nation could use to force another nation to do what it wanted. For the other, he coined the term “soft power” — meaning “when one country gets other countries to want what it wants.” Soft power was more seductive than coercive; it could be built on culture, on ideals, on leading by example.Nye’s terms are now used by political scientists and business-school professors alike. They are a product of the same line of thinking that appears in a common expression: “Power comes in many forms.” This is the same line of thinking too that so often has undergraduate students intoxicated by the ideas of the French theorist Michel Foucault, who saw power as ephemeral, taking countless shapes, everywhere and nowhere: It was “at once visible and invisible, present and hidden, ubiquitous,” like a light emanating from a thousand pinprick sources. Foucault’s idea of resistance was to spend your time mapping out all those pinprick sources of power, like the stars: If you wanted to speak truth to power, he suggested, you first had to divine your position inside a whole constellation of influence. This sort of thinking can make our view of power far more nuanced and complex, but it can also make it quite confusing. The dispiriting message some took away from Foucault was that things were, ultimately, a bit hopeless: Power was far too chaotic to help anyone figure out the right thing to do.This dizzying and disordered vision of power isn’t reserved for high-stakes international affairs or abstract philosophical contexts. It is a feature of almost every social or cultural battle we have. The question of power has buzzed its way, for instance, through a huge share of recent conversations about sexual harassment. In many #MeToo stories, the power a harasser has over his target is clear and hard as a diamond: He is the boss; he can hire or fire, promote or demote. But in so many others, a softer pull is involved — a matter of age, or ambient status, or standing within an industry. Last month, when several women told NPR about what they saw as exploitative relationships with the writer Sherman Alexie, one described her account as one “about power, and abuse of power.” This wasn’t because Alexie necessarily held any formal or official power over the other writers he encountered; the power his accuser was referring to derived from his literary success, influence and social standing.People hold countless opinions about accusations like this, and plenty of them have already been aired at great and contentious length. But even within those arguments, the question of who holds “power” is a constant, each side insisting it lies with the other. In a Slate interview with Isaac Chotiner, the writer Katie Roiphe, who has expressed skepticism about what she sees as the rush to judgment of #MeToo, described being pilloried in response. When Chotiner tried to suggest that being vilified by Twitter users might not be so consequential, the two reached an impasse. “You are saying they don’t have power, but I think they do have power,” Roiphe said. She saw a group of social media critics and writers as having the power to set the terms of the conversation; they undoubtedly felt the same way about her, a tenured professor scolding them from the pages of a prestigious publication like Harper’s.It was this point, Chotiner said, that was “the crux of our disagreement.” Which is in its own way a summation of where we all are: Everyone, from the online critic to the president, seems always to believe that power lies elsewhere, in some branch of the constellation beyond their reach. Try to map out almost any part of this cultural moment, and you will find something similarly chaotic — all the players passing by one another, each convinced they are doing the right thing, and very few convinced that they, in the face of powerful opposition, have enough influence to affect much at all.Those who feel inspired by cultural moments like the student walkout tend to be struck by how easy it can feel, once a certain critical mass builds, to sweep away what once seemed like entrenched and unassailable sources of might. “Power is like money: imaginary, entirely dependent on belief,” Tim Kreider wrote in a Times Op-Ed in March, urging the young to rise up against the usual order of things. “Most of the power of institutions lies in the faith people have in them.” But the slippage between those two sentences — between “entirely” and “most of” — is not always easy to overcome. Some power is very concrete; some power really is a gun to your head. And the fact that some of it is very soft — that it is socially constructed, or dependent on belief — does not make it any less real. It is indeed just like money, just not in the way Kreider thinks: You may conclude that dollar bills are mere worthless symbols of value, but your lack of faith will not prevent your starving to death without them.The chaos and multiplicity of power, then, can be something of a magic trick, keeping us arguing forever about who has it. Which isn’t to say there isn’t room for clarity about certain definite, reliable sources of power. The science-fiction writer Philip K. Dick, for instance, found it difficult to believe in any single, stable reality — but in a 1978 essay, he explained how even an anarchic world could have its masters. He believed in creating new realities, he said; he’d dedicated his life to it. But he didn’t think all realities were created equal. “Unceasingly we are bombarded with pseudorealities manufactured by very sophisticated people using very sophisticated electronic mechanisms,” he said. “I do not distrust their motives; I distrust their power. They have a lot of it.”He was talking, back then, about television and the Disney corporation. Today, though, it’s easy to hear those words and think of Facebook, or Twitter, or any of the “electronic mechanisms” on which our broad movements of anger or disinformation emerge. Right now the owners of these platforms seem to believe they are merely facilitating maps of every point of power in the universe. They thrive on all our little contests and arguments about who has power over whom and eschew responsibility for any of the chaos created by them. But as we’ve learned in recent weeks, there is actual power accruing to the hosts of all our debates, and to the maps they make of us — maps others may use in trying to manipulate, say, the outcome of an election. This power is concrete, and its source obvious. It is worth, as Dick says, our distrust.
Here is a selection of some notable recent pieces, including several on the debate over gun laws in the wake of a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla.Our children have finally begun to turn the tide against guns in this country. They will grow up, and remember everything, and forgive nothing, writes Tim Kreider. After the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, the Editorial Board wrote: “Candidates must realize that reducing gun violence is a winning and moral issue. Aggressive turnout by voters who believe this can defeat the N.R.A. at the polls.”I am a junior in high school, and I regularly shoot guns, for target practice and hunting. Going to school can be hard because most kids don’t understand how I live.While much of the nation is loudly debating the prospect of arming teachers in the wake of the Parkland massacre, the decision has already been made in much of Ohio.We have a serious problem, and it goes far beyond “fake news.” Too many Americans have no idea how to properly read a social media feed. Here are some guidelines for being a smarter person online.Today the word “hyperactive” doesn’t just describe certain individuals; it also is a quality of our society. And recent research suggests that some people with A.D.H.D. may be naturally suited to our turbocharged world. Ralph Richard Banks, a law professor at Stanford, noted in an Op-Ed that a recent study “provides an empirical basis for an economic susceptibility that black parents like me have sensed: Across generations, we are less likely than whites to rise and when we do, are more likely later to fall.” He writes about finding the will to disrupt the cycle of black disadvantage.Here’s an idea: Social media tools and tech gadgets should not hurt us. The Mark Zuckerbergs of the world need to start considering the ethical implications of the products they unleash. The latest installment of the Stone series looks at how to think about our data-driven world.The Russians seem to have a hold on the American president. If Trump isn’t Putin’s lackey, it’s past time for him to prove it, writes the Editorial Board.The invasion of Iraq began 15 years ago. Once brutalized by dictatorship under Saddam Hussein, the country became even more dysfunctional, difficult and dangerous for its people afterward. Read this searing account by Sinan Antoon, a poet and novelist born and raised there."I was an outsider in a place that is supposed to value weirdness." Writer Joshunda Sanders recalls what it was like to be black in Austin, a city that holds racial truths at arm’s length.Remember Rob Ford, the deceased former mayor of Toronto? It didn’t matter to his base that he smoked crack cocaine while in office. Now his older brother Doug has a strong chance of becoming the premier of Ontario, and his rise is crushing the smugness Canadians have been feeling about Justin Trudeau. 
WASHINGTON — Little has returned to normal for the students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School since Feb. 14, when a gunman killed 14 of their classmates and three staff members.They juggle homework with activism. They wince at loud noises. Sometimes, they sleep.But to the huge crowds that greeted them in Washington on Saturday at a march to protest gun violence, the students were fearless celebrities.“We’re here for you, Douglas!” a girl shrieked as five teenage boys from Stoneman Douglas and their history teacher made their way to the main stage.“Go Douglas!” said the teacher, Greg Pittman.As the crowd broke into applause, the boys remained stoic. They held up their poster boards — “It is a school zone, not a war zone,” read one — and looked straight ahead.They were part of a group of 200 people from Stoneman Douglas, in Parkland, Fla., who were sponsored by Giffords, the gun control advocacy group, to come to the Washington march. An alumni group raised enough money to get more than 550 additional students to the rally, a spokeswoman for the group said. Others traveled to Washington on their own, some of them rooming with family and friends.Despite their numbers, their steady presence in the news, their unmistakable influence on the national debate over guns, some of them were trying to be teenagers again.It hasn’t been easy.The five boys did not organize the event on Saturday, called the March for Our Lives. They did not lose a relative in the shooting. They were not injured.But their coach, Aaron Feis, was killed. Their school was forever changed. And now, they were in the nation’s capital, feeling hundreds of eyes on them as they walked down Constitution Avenue.“There’s a lot of emotion,” said one, Adrian Kauffman, 16.The five boys, all sophomores, refrained from endorsing a specific policy proposal or calling out politicians they dislike. They arrived to show strength in numbers, “so nothing like this happens again,” said Adam Hostig, 15.“Most teenagers talk about drama about girlfriends and boyfriends,” said Zach Cooper, 16. “And we’re talking about bomb threats and guns.”“Nonstop,” Adam said.A police helicopter hovered overhead. Adam’s eyes darted up suspiciously.“Even coming to an event like this, it’s scary,” Zach said.None of them paid much attention to the politics of guns before the shooting, they admitted. “We got more informed,” said Evan Kuperman, 16.The march will make it “feel like the people who died did not die in vain,” added Josh Funk, 16.Amid their newfound activism, they have tried to return to lives that resemble those they had before their high school turned into a mass-murder scene.“You get a sense of guilt trying to have fun,” Josh said. “But at the same time, you just want to be with friends and family all the time. To never miss a moment.”In Washington this week, the Florida visitors sponsored by Giffords went to museums and shared late-night ice cream sundaes in a hotel ballroom with foosball tables and a Pac-Man machine.But they also roved the hallways of the Capitol, meeting with lawmakers and lobbying for action on gun violence. The House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, dropped in on their hotel. Some of them met former Vice President Joe Biden.“I’ve gotten about nine hours of sleep in four days,” Aly Sheehy, an 18-year-old senior, said near midnight on Friday. “But being around other people that understand what I’ve gone through just recharges me.”“On Sunday, we’ll all be exhausted,” she added. “But then we’ll go back. For something this important, I’ll make the time.”“They definitely think we’re going to go away,” Jose Iglesias, a 17-year-old senior, said of politicians and skeptical adults. “We know what we’re doing. We have tactics. They think we’re just children.”The students knew that interest in their cause might fade outside their own schools. They knew that for the grown-ups, the march, which was organized in a little more than a month, might seem like the culmination of their efforts. “It’s just the beginning,” Jose said.On Saturday morning, he awoke early. “In my sleep, I called 911,” he said. “Really it was my alarm that kept going off.”“I have flashbacks of running into a classroom,” said Sarah Pierre, 17, a senior.Over breakfast, students made last-minute signs with Crayola markers. Natasha Martinez, a 17-year-old junior, got on FaceTime with her mother, who was attending the march back home in Parkland. Her mother worried that Natasha was underdressed for the Washington cold. “I’m wearing the thermal, a turtleneck, this hoodie I bought, and a coat,” Natasha insisted.A friend sitting next to her, Isabel Chequer, a 16-year-old junior, waved at Natasha’s mother.“She has a special pass,” Natasha said, pointing at Isabel’s neck. “Injured club!” said Isabel, who was twice grazed during the shooting. She was one of 17 people hurt.Isabel fears the shooting will make it impossible for her to watch action movies anymore, despite her interest in film.“I feel like I can’t see those movies again, like ‘Black Panther’ or ‘Annihilation,’ which makes me really sad, because I love movies so much,” she said. “It’s taken a little bit from myself.”“I feel weird doing normal things,” her schoolmate Aly said.Throngs of marchers soon took to the streets downtown. Students from Stoneman Douglas and other schools delivered speeches, some choked with emotion as they described living with violent memories, survivor’s guilt and the ever-present shadow of fear.Samantha Fuentes, an 18-year-old senior who was shot in both legs during the shooting, went on stage to read a poem.Halfway through it, she appeared to get nervous and quickly ducked behind the podium. She stood back up as people rushed from backstage to help her. “I just threw up on international television, and it feels great,” she said with a laugh, before reading the rest of her poem.It ended: “Will you give up? Or is enough enough?”When the speeches — along with performances by Ariana Grande, Miley Cyrus and others — were finished, and the crowds began to disperse, the Stoneman Douglas students became tourists again, albeit ones who had moved thousands.Amanda Lee, a 17-year-old junior who had been in one of the classrooms where shots were fired, left the rally with other students, pausing to snap pictures of the cherry blossoms that had started to bloom along the street.Amanda said she had expected more of an actual march than speeches and a concert. But the magnitude of what they had accomplished in less than two months, she said, hit when she saw images of protests across the country and around the world.“It sinks in,” she said. “And then you feel that you’ve done the impossible.”
